UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

  FORM 10-K  

(Mark One)

  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

For The Fiscal Year Ended October 31, 2023

OR

  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

For The Transition Period From To

Commission File Number: 001-34755

  LIMONEIRA COMPANY                                       
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  

  Delaware                                                            77-0260692                               
  (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)      (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)  

  1141 Cummings Road                                     
  Santa Paula, CA 93060                                  
  (Address of principal executive offices and zip code)  

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: ( 805 525-5541

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

  Title of each class                Trading symbol      Name of each exchange on which registered  
  Common Stock, par value $0.01      LMNR                The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC                
                                                         (NASDAQ Global Select Market)              
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes☐ No☒

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes☐ No☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YesNo☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). YesNo☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

  Large accelerated filer ☐      Accelerated filer ☒      Non-accelerated filer ☐      Smaller reporting      Emerging growth  
                                                                                       company ☐              company ☐        
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes☐ No☒

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Based on the closing price as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock held by non-affiliates on April 30, 2023 (the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter) was approximately $ 204.0 17,994,110

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement for the 2024 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we intend to hold on March 26, 2024, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The definitive Proxy Statement will be filed within 120 days after October 31, 2023.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

  PART I                                                                                                                     5  
  Item 1. Business                                                                                                           5  
  Item 1A. Risk Factors                                                                                                     16  
  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments                                                                                        28  
  Item 2. Properties                                                                                                        29  
  Item 3. Legal Proceedings                                                                                                 30  
  Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures                                                                                           30  
  PART II                                                                                                                   31  
  Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      31  
  Item 6. Reserved                                                                                                          33  
  Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations                             33  
  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk                                                       43  
  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                                                       43  
  Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                              82  
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures                                                                                          82  
  Item 9B. Other Information                                                                                                84  
  Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections                                              84  
  PART III                                                                                                                  85  
  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance                                                           85  
  Item 11. Executive Compensation                                                                                           85  
  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters                   85  
  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence                                         85  
  Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services                                                                           85  
  Part IV                                                                                                                   86  
  Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules                                                                       86  
  Item 16. Form 10-K Summary                                                                                                86  
  SIGNATURES                                                                                                                92  

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this “Annual Report”) contains statements which, to the extent that they do not recite historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may include the words “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “would,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan” or other words or expressions of similar meaning. We have based these 
forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. The forward-looking statements include statements that reflect management’s beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations and intentions with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, future performance and business, including statements relating to our business strategy and our current and future development plans.

The potential risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual financial condition, results of operations and future performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this Annual Report include:

• success in executing the Company's business plans and strategies and managing the risks involved in the foregoing;

• negative impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic and our Company's responses to the pandemic;

• changes in laws, regulations, rules, quotas, tariffs and import laws;

• adverse weather conditions, natural disasters and other adverse natural conditions, including freezes, rains, fires, winds and droughts that affect the production, transportation, storage, import and export of fresh produce;

• market responses to industry volume pressures;

• increased pressure from disease, insects and other pests;

• disruption of water supplies or changes in water allocations;

• disruption in the global supply chain;

• product and raw materials supplies and pricing;

• energy supply and pricing;

• changes in interest rates and the impact of inflation;

• availability of financing for development activities;

• general economic conditions for residential and commercial real estate development;

• political changes and economic crises;

• international conflict;

• acts of terrorism;

• labor disruptions, strikes, shortages or work stoppages;

• the impact of foreign exchange rate movements;

• ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our loan agreements;

• loss of important intellectual property rights; and

• other factors disclosed in our public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).

In addition, this Annual Report contains industry data related to our business and the markets in which we operate. This data includes projections that are based on a number of assumptions. If these assumptions turn out to be incorrect, actual results could differ from the projections or estimates. We urge you to carefully review this Annual Report, particularly the section entitled “Risk Factors,” for a complete discussion of the risks of an investment in our common stock.

Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Many factors discussed in this Annual Report, some of which are beyond our control, will be important in determining our future performance. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from those that might be anticipated from forward-looking statements. In light of these and other uncertainties, you 
should not regard the inclusion of a forward-looking statement in this Annual Report as a representation by us that our plans and objectives will be achieved, and you should not place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.

All references to “we,” “us,” “our,” “our Company,” “the Company,” or “Limoneira” in this Annual Report mean Limoneira Company, a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.

PART I

Item 1. Business

Limoneira Company, a Delaware corporation, is the successor to several businesses with operations in California since 1893. Our business and operations are described below. For detailed financial information with respect to our business and our operations, see our consolidated financial statements and the related notes to consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 in this Annual Report. In addition, general information concerning our Company can be found on our website at 
www.limoneira.com. All of our filings with the SEC, including but not limited to, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments thereto, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website referred to above are not incorporated into this Annual Report. Further, any references to our website are intended to 
be interactive textual references only.

Overview

We are primarily an agribusiness company founded and based in Santa Paula, California, committed to responsibly using and managing our approximately 11,100 acres of land, water resources and other assets to maximize long-term stockholder value. Our current operations consist of fruit production, sales and marketing, rental operations, real estate and capital investment activities.

Agribusiness activities are performed through these four reporting segments:

We are one of California’s oldest citrus growers. According to Sunkist Growers, Inc., we are one of the largest growers of lemons in the United States and, according to the California Avocado Commission, one of the largest growers of avocados in the United States. In addition to growing lemons and avocados, we grow oranges and other crops. We have agricultural plantings throughout Ventura and San Luis Obispo in California and Yuma County in Arizona, La Serena, Chile and Jujuy, Argentina, which 
collectively consist of approximately 3,500 acres of lemons, 1,200 acres of avocados, 100 acres of oranges and 400 acres of wine grapes. We also operate our own packinghouses in Santa Paula, California and Yuma, Arizona, where we process, pack and sell lemons that we grow, as well as lemons grown by others. We have a 47% interest in Rosales S.A. (“Rosales”), a citrus packing, marketing and sales business, a 90% interest in Fruticola Pan de Azucar S.A. (“PDA”), a lemon and orange orchard and a 
100% interest in Agricola San Pablo, SpA (“San Pablo”), a lemon and orange orchard, all of which are located near La Serena, Chile. We have a 51% interest in a joint venture, Trapani Fresh Consorcio de Cooperacion (“Trapani Fresh”), a lemon orchard in Argentina.

Our water resources include water rights, usage rights and pumping rights to the water in aquifers under, and canals that run through, the land we own. Water for our farming operations is sourced from the existing water resources associated with our land, which includes rights to water in the adjudicated Santa Paula Basin (aquifer) and the un-adjudicated Fillmore and Paso Robles Basins (aquifers). We also use surface water in Arizona from the Colorado River through the Yuma Mesa Irrigation and 
Drainage District (“YMIDD”). We use ground water provided by wells and surface water for our PDA and San Pablo farming operations in Chile and our Trapani Fresh farming operations in Argentina. We use ground water from the San Joaquin Valley Basin and water from local water and irrigation districts in Tulare County, which is in California’s San Joaquin Valley. We used ground water from the Cadiz Valley Basin in California's San Bernardino County.

For more than 100 years, we have been making strategic investments in California agriculture and real estate. We currently have an interest in two real estate development projects in California. These projects include multi-family housing, single-family homes and apartments of approximately 800 units in various stages of planning and development.

Fiscal Year 2023 Highlights and Recent Developments

On October 10, 2022, we entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement, as amended (the “Agreement”), with PGIM Real Estate Finance, LLC (“PGIM”) to sell 3,537 acres of land and citrus orchards in Tulare County, California (the “Northern Properties”) for an adjusted purchase price of approximately $100.0 million. The agreement became effective on January 25, 2023, when the Board of Directors (the “Board”) approved the Agreement, binding us to sell the Northern Properties and the transaction closed 
on January 31, 2023. We received net cash proceeds of approximately $98.4 million and recorded a gain of approximately $40.0 million. The proceeds were used primarily to pay down debt.

On January 31, 2023, we entered into a Farm Management Agreement (the “FMA”) with an affiliate of PGIM to provide farming, management and operations services related to the Northern Properties. The FMA has an initial term expiring March 31, 2024, and thereafter continuing from year to year unless earlier terminated under the terms of the FMA. Further, on January 31, 2023, we entered into a Grower Packing and Marketing Agreement to provide packing, marketing and selling services for lemons 
harvested on the Northern Properties for a minimum five-year term, subject to certain benchmarking standards.

During the three months ended January 31, 2023, the Company made funding contributions of $2.5 million to fully fund and settle the plan obligations of the Limoneira Company Retirement Plan. Lump sum payments were made to a portion of the active and vested terminated participants and annuities were purchased for all remaining participants from an insurance company. There are no remaining benefit obligations or plan assets and the remaining accumulated other comprehensive loss was fully 
recognized.

On November 30, 2022, we sold our Sevilla property, received net proceeds of $2.6 million and recorded an immaterial loss in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023.

On April 18, 2023, we entered into a Confidential Settlement Agreement and Release (the “Settlement Agreement”) with Southern California Edison and Edison International to formally resolve any and all claims related to the Thomas Fire in fiscal year 2018. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the Company was awarded a total settlement of $9.0 million. On May 19, 2023, the Company received approximately $6.1 million, net of legal and related costs.

In April 2023, we determined that citrus farming operations were economically unviable on 670 acres of leased agricultural land at the Cadiz Ranch. As a result, we ceased farming operations, disposed of the related property, plant and equipment and recorded a loss on disposal of assets of $9.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023.

In August 2023, we engaged with YMIDD and the United States Bureau of Reclamation in a fallowing and forbearance program at our Associated Citrus Packers, Inc. (“Associated”) ranch in Yuma, Arizona. We expect to receive approximately $1.3 million annually, paid in quarterly installments, for fallowing approximately 600 acres out of 1,300 acres of farmland through calendar year 2025.

In October 2023, Limoneira Lewis Community Builders, LLC (“LLCB”) closed on lot sales representing 121 residential units and we recorded equity in earnings of investments of $5.1 million for fiscal year 2023.

On December 1, 2023, we announced the commencement of a strategic review process to explore potential alternatives aimed at maximizing stockholder value. Potential strategic alternatives could include, but not be limited to, a sale of all or parts of the Company and its assets, a merger or other transaction. The Board has not set a timetable for completion of the review and no transaction or other outcome is guaranteed to take place. At this time, we cannot predict the impact that such strategic
alternatives might have on our business, operations or financial condition.

On December 19, 2023, we declared a cash dividend of $0.075 per common share to be paid on January 12, 2024, in the aggregate amount of approximately $1.3 million to stockholders of record as of January 2, 2024.

COVID-19 Pandemic

The COVID-19 pandemic has had an adverse impact on the industries and markets in which we conduct business. In particular, the United States lemon market saw a significant decline in volume, with lemon demand falling since widespread shelter in place orders were issued in March 2020, resulting in a significant market oversupply. The export market for fresh produce also significantly declined due to the COVID-19 pandemic impacts.

The decline in demand for our products beginning the second quarter of fiscal year 2020 has negatively impacted our sales and profitability for the last four fiscal years. The COVID-19 pandemic may continue to impact our sales and profitability in future periods. The duration of these trends and the magnitude of such impacts cannot be estimated at this time, as they are influenced by a number of factors, many of which are outside management’s control, including, but not limited, to those 
presented in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report.

Given the economic uncertainty as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic over the past four fiscal years, we have taken actions to improve our current liquidity position, including strategically selling certain assets, temporarily postponing capital expenditures and substantially reducing discretionary spending.

There is continued uncertainty around the breadth and duration of our business disruptions related to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as its impact on the U.S. economy and the ongoing business operations of our customers. The ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity for fiscal year 2024 and beyond cannot be estimated at this point. The following discussions are subject to the future effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our ongoing 
business operations.

Business Division Summary

We have three business divisions: agribusiness, rental operations and real estate development. The agribusiness division is comprised of four reportable operating segments: fresh lemons, lemon packing, avocados and other agribusiness, which includes oranges, specialty citrus, other crops and farm management services. The agribusiness division includes our core operations of farming, harvesting, lemon packing and lemon sales operations. The rental operations division includes our residential and 
commercial rentals, leased land operations and organic recycling. The real estate development division includes our investments in real estate development projects. Financial information and discussion of our four reportable segments are contained in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report.

Agribusiness Summary

Farming

Lemons. We market and sell lemons directly to our food service, wholesale and retail customers throughout the United States, Canada, Asia, Australia and certain other international markets. We are one of the largest lemon growers in the United States with approximately 3,500 acres of lemons planted primarily in Ventura County, California and in Yuma County, Arizona. Ventura County is California’s top lemon producing county. Approximately 55% of our lemons are grown in Ventura County and 24% are 
grown in Yuma County. We also grow approximately 21% of our lemons near La Serena, Chile.

There are many varieties of lemons, with the Lisbon, Eureka and Genoa being the predominant varieties marketed on a worldwide basis. Approximately 96% of our lemon plantings are of the Lisbon, Eureka and Genoa varieties and approximately 4% are of other varieties such as sweet Meyer lemons and Proprietary Seedless lemons. California-grown lemons are available throughout the year, with peak production periods occurring from January through August. The storage life of fresh lemons generally ranges
from one to 18 weeks, depending upon the maturity of the fruit, the growing methods used and the handling conditions in the distribution chain.

Avocados. We are one of the largest avocado growers in the United States with approximately 1,200 acres of avocados planted throughout Ventura County.

California-grown avocados have peak production periods occurring between February and July. Because of superior eating quality, the Hass avocado has contributed greatly to the avocado’s growing popularity through its retail, restaurant and other food service uses. Approximately 95% of our avocado plantings are of the Hass variety. The storage life of fresh avocados generally ranges from one to four weeks, depending upon the maturity of the fruit, the growing methods used and the handling 
conditions in the distribution chain.

Through fiscal year 2021, the Company sold the majority of its avocado production to Calavo Growers, Inc. (“Calavo”), a packing and marketing company listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CVGW. In February 2022, the Company terminated its Avocado Marketing Agreement and the associated Letter Agreement Regarding Fruit Commitment with Calavo to pursue opportunities with other packing and marketing companies.

Primarily related to differing soil conditions, the care of avocado trees is intensive. The need for more production per acre to compete with foreign sources of supply has required us to take an important lead in the practice of dense planting (typically four times the number of avocado trees per acre versus traditional avocado plantings) and mulching composition to help trees acclimate under conditions that more closely resemble those found in the tropics, a better climate for avocado growth.

Other Agribusiness. We have approximately 100 acres of oranges planted near La Serena, Chile. Approximately 72% of our orange plantings are of the Navel variety and approximately 28% are of the Valencia variety. We have approximately 400 acres of wine grapes. Additionally, we provide farm management services, which include farming, management and operations services mainly related to the Northern Properties.

Prior to the Northern Properties sale, we utilized third-party packinghouses to process and pack our oranges. A portion of our oranges was marketed and sold under the Sunkist brand by Sunkist and orders were processed by Sunkist-member packinghouses. As an agricultural cooperative, Sunkist coordinated the sales and marketing of the oranges and specialty citrus and orders were processed by Sunkist-member packinghouses for direct shipment to customers.

We currently market our wine grapes utilizing processors that are not members of agricultural cooperatives. Our wine grapes are harvested and sold to various wine producers.

Plantings

We have agricultural plantings on properties located in the United States, Chile and Argentina. The following is a description of our agriculture properties:

  Ranch Name                     County / State or Country      Total                  Lemons      Avocados      Oranges      Other  
                                                                Acres                                                                
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Limoneira/Olivelands           Ventura, CA                                1,700         500      700           —              500  
  La Campana                     Ventura, CA                      300                       —      300           —                —  
  Orchard Farm                   Ventura, CA                                1,100         500      —             —              600  
  Rancho La Cuesta               Ventura, CA                      200                     100      —             —              100  
  Limco Del Mar                  Ventura, CA                      200                     100      100           —                —  
  Windfall Farms                 San Luis Obispo, CA              700                       —      —             —              300  
  Associated Citrus Packers      Yuma, AZ                                   1,300         600      —             —              700  
  Pan de Azucar & San Pablo      La Serena, Chile                           3,500         500      —             100                 
  Santa Clara                    Jujuy, Argentina                           1,200                  —             —              200  
  Other agribusiness land        Various Counties, CA             400                     200      100           —              100  
  Total                                                                    10,600                                100                 
  Percentage of Total                                             100                      33      11            1               51  

TheLimoneira/Olivelands Ranch is the original site of our Company. Our headquarters, lemon packing operations and storage facilities are located on this property.

Other acres in the table above includes corporate and lemon packing facilities, land leased to other agricultural businesses, rental units, roads, creeks, hillsides and other open land.

Our orchards can maintain production for many years. For financial reporting purposes, we depreciate our orchards from 20 to 40 years depending on the fruit variety with the majority of our orchards depreciated over 20 to 30 years. We regularly evaluate our orchards’ production and growing costs and based on these and other factors, we may decide to redevelop certain orchards. In addition, we may acquire agricultural property with existing productive orchards or without productive orchards, 
which would require new orchard plantings. The fruit varieties that we grow are typically non-producing for approximately the first four to five years after the year of planting. Orchards may continue producing fruit longer than their depreciable lives. The following table presents the number of acres planted by fruit variety and approximate age of our orchards:

                   Age of Orchards                                                                      
                   0-5 Years            6-25 Years                 Over 25 Years      Total             
  Lemons           300                                  2,400      800                           3,500  
  Avocados         400                         300                 500                           1,200  
  Oranges          —                           100                 —                  100               
  Wine grapes      100                         300                 —                  400               
  Total            800                                  3,100                                    5,200  

Lemon Packing and Sales

We are one of the oldest continuous lemon packing operations in North America. We pack and sell lemons grown by us as well as lemons grown by others, the operations of which are included in our financial statements under the lemon packing segment. Lemons delivered to our packinghouses in Santa Paula, California and Yuma, Arizona are sized, graded, cooled, ripened and packed for delivery to customers. Our ability to accurately estimate the size, grade and timing of the delivery of the annual 
lemon crop has a substantial impact on both our costs and the sales price we receive for the fruit.

A significant portion of the costs related to our lemon packing operation is fixed. We invest considerable time and research into refining and improving our lemon packing through innovation and are continuously searching for new techniques to refine how premium lemons are delivered to our consumers. Our strategy for growing the profitability of our lemon packing operations calls for optimizing the percentage of a crop that goes to the fresh market, or fresh utilization, and procuring a larger 
percentage of the California and Arizona lemon crop.

Rental Operations Summary

Our rental operations include our residential and commercial rentals, leased land operations and organic recycling.

We own and maintain 238 residential housing units located in Ventura County in California that we lease to employees, former employees and outside tenants. We also own several commercial office buildings. These properties generate reliable cash flows that we use to partially fund the operating costs of our business. As of October 31, 2023, we lease approximately 400 acres of our land to third-party agricultural tenants who grow a variety of row crops. Our leased land business provides us with a 
profitable method to diversify the use of our land. We also partner with one of our tenants and have an organic recycling facility on our land in Ventura County. Effective November 1, 2021, we also lease our 1,200-acre Santa Clara ranch in Argentina.

Real Estate Development Summary

We invest in real estate investment projects and recognize that long-term strategies are required for successful real estate development activities. Our goal is to redeploy real estate earnings and cash flow into the expansion of our agribusiness and other income producing real estate. For real estate development projects and joint ventures, it is not unusual for the timing and amounts of revenues and costs, partner contributions and distributions, project loans, other financing assumptions and 
project cash flows to be impacted by government approvals, project revenue and cost estimates and assumptions, economic conditions, financing sources and product demand as well as other factors. Such factors could affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity.

For more than 100 years, we have been making strategic real estate investments in California agricultural and developable real estate. Our current real estate developments include developable land parcels, multi-family housing and single-family homes with approximately 800 units in various stages of planning and development. The following is a summary of each of the strategic real estate investment properties in which we own an interest:

East Area I - Santa Paula, California. East Area I consists of 523 acres that we historically used as agricultural land and is located in Santa Paula approximately ten miles from the City of Ventura and the Pacific Ocean. This property was formerly known as our Teague McKevett Ranch. East Area I is the location for our master planned community of commercial and residential properties, namedHarvest at Limoneira, designed to satisfy expected demand in a region that we believe will have few other 
developments in this coming decade.

In November 2015, we entered into a joint venture with the Lewis Group of Companies (“Lewis”) for the residential development of our East Area I real estate development project. To consummate the transaction, we formed LLCB as the development entity, contributed our East Area I property to the joint venture and sold a 50% interest in the joint venture to Lewis for $20.0 million. The first phase of the project broke ground to commence mass grading in November 2017. Approved project plans include 
approximately 1,500 residential units and site improvements. A total of 707 residential units have closed from the project's inception to October 31, 2023.

In October 2022, we entered into another joint venture with Lewis for the development of our 17-acre East Area I Retained Property (“Retained Property”), which is located within the East Area I property. We formed LLCB II, LLC as the development entity, contributed our Retained Property to the joint venture and sold a 50% interest to Lewis for approximately $8.0 million. In connection with the closing, we amended LLCB’s Limited Liability Company Agreement to provide that LLCB is to include the 
processing of final approval for additional residential units to be developed and constructed on the Retained Property.

The joint venture partners will share in capital contributions to fund project costs until loan proceeds and/or revenues are sufficient to fund the projects. Since inception, each partner has made funding contributions of $21.4 million to LLCB and $0.5 million to LLCB II. We expect to receive approximately $123.0 million from LLCB, LLCB II and East Area II over the next seven years of the projects.

East Area II - Santa Paula, California. Our design associates and we are in the process of formulating plans for East Area II, a parcel of approximately 30 acres adjacent to East Area I. In July 2021, we entered into a non-binding letter of intent to sell approximately 25 acres of our East Area II property in five staged purchases to an investment company for the purpose of constructing a medical campus consisting of medical office buildings and an acute care hospital. Completion of the 
transaction is subject to the execution of a purchase and sale agreement and resolution of certain contingencies.

Santa Maria - Santa Barbara County, California. In fiscal year 2020, we entered into an agreement to sell our Sevilla property for $2.7 million, which closed in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023.

Markets and Competitive Strengths

Agribusiness Operations

With agricultural operations dating back to 1893, we are one of California’s oldest citrus growers and one of the largest growers of lemons and avocados in the United States. Consequently, we have developed significant experience with a variety of crops, mainly lemons and avocados. The following is a brief list of what we believe are our significant competitive strengths with respect to our agribusiness operations:

• Our agricultural properties in Ventura County are located near the Pacific Ocean, which provides an ideal environment for growing lemons, avocados and row crops. Our agricultural properties in Yuma, Arizona, are also located in an area that is well-suited for growing citrus crops.

• Historically, a higher percentage of our crops goes to the fresh market, which is commonly referred to as fresh utilization, than that of other growers and packers with which we compete.

• We have contiguous and nearby land resources that permit us to efficiently use our agricultural land and resources.

• In all but one of our properties, we are not dependent on State or Federal water projects to support our agribusiness or real estate development operations.

• We own a majority of our agricultural land and take a long view on our fruit production practices.

• A significant amount of our agribusiness property was acquired many years ago, which results in a low-cost basis and associated expenses.

• In our fresh lemons and lemon packing segments, our integrated business model with respect to growing, packing, marketing and selling citrus allows us to better serve our customers.

• Our lemon packing operations provide marketing opportunities with other citrus companies and their respective products.

• We have made investments in ground-based solar projects that provide us with tangible and intangible non-revenue generating benefits. The electricity generated by these investments provides us with a significant portion of the electricity required to operate our packinghouse and cold storage facilities located in Santa Paula, California. Additionally, these investments support our sustainable agricultural practices, reduce our dependence on fossil-based electricity generation and lower our 
carbon footprint. Moreover, electricity that we generate and do not use is conveyed back to the utility companies. Finally, over time, we expect that our customers and the end consumers of our fruit will value the investments that we have made in renewable energy as a part of our packing operations, which we believe may help us differentiate our products from similar commodities.

• We have made various other investments in water rights and mutual water companies. We own shares in the following mutual water companies: Farmers Irrigation Co., Canyon Irrigation Co., San Cayetano Mutual Water Co. and Middle Road Mutual Water Co. Additionally, we acquired water rights in the adjudicated Santa Paula Basin (aquifer), the YMIDD and in Chile.

Real Estate Development Operations

With respect to our real estate development operations, we believe our competitive advantages are as follows:

• We have entitlements to build approximately 1,500 residential units in our East Area I development.

• We have partnered with an experienced and financially strong land developer for our East Area I residential master plan development.

• Several of our agricultural and real estate investment properties are unique and carry longer-term development potential.

• Our East Area II property has approximately 30 acres of land commercially zoned, which is adjacent to our East Area I property.

Business Strategy

We are an agribusiness and real estate development company that generates revenue and annual cash flows to support investments in agricultural efficiencies and real estate development activities. As our agricultural and non-strategic real estate development investments are monetized, we intend to use the cash flow to reduce existing debt, invest in farming efficiencies and expand packing capacities through our One World of Citrus Asset Lighter Business Model. We will also use more third-party 
grower and supplier fruit to reduce the impact of pricing volatility and rising farming costs.

We believe the asset-lighter model will enable us to achieve revenue and cash flow growth by reducing investment risk in North and South America, generating more stable and higher growth in cash flow and earnings, and improving our annual return on invested capital.

The following describes the key elements of our business strategy.

Agribusiness

With respect to our agribusiness operations, key elements of our strategy are:

•Expand our One World of Citrus Asset Lighter Business Model in three main channels:

◦ Growing, packing, marketing and distributing fruit grown on our properties;

◦Utilizing third-party grower fruit by packing, marketing and distributing their fruit through Limoneira channels; and

◦ Marketing and distributing brokered fruit.

We intend to strategically sell certain assets to reduce existing debt, increase farming efficiencies and expand packing capabilities. Increased volume of fruit sales is expected to be fueled by sourcing from third-party growers and suppliers, thus mitigating the volatility that commodity pricing has on growers.

• Expand our Sources of Lemon Supply. Peak lemon production occurs at different times of the year depending on geographic region. In addition to our lemon production in California and Arizona and lemons we acquire from domestic third-party growers and suppliers, we have expanded our lemon supply sources to international markets such as Mexico, Chile and Argentina. Increases in lemons procured from third-party growers and suppliers and international sources improve our ability to provide our 
customers with fresh lemons throughout the year.

•Increase the Volume of our Lemon Packing Operations. We regularly monitor our costs for redundancies and opportunities for cost reductions. In this regard, cost per carton is a function of throughput. We continually seek to acquire additional lemons from third-party growers and suppliers to pack through our packing facilities. Third-party growers and suppliers are only added if we determine their fruit is of good quality and can be cost effective for both the grower and us. Of most importance 
is the overall fresh utilization rate for our fruit, which is directly related to quality.

•Expand International Sales and Marketing of Lemons. We estimate that we currently have approximately 15% of the fresh lemon market in the United States and a larger share of the United States lemon export market. We intend to explore opportunities to expand our international sales and marketing of lemons. We have the ability to supply a wide range of customers and markets and, because we produce high quality lemons, we can export our lemons to international customers, which many of our 
competitors are unable to supply.

•Opportunistically Expand our Plantings of Avocados. Our plantings of avocados have been profitable and have been pursued to diversify our product line. Agricultural land that we believe is not suitable for lemons is typically planted with avocados or other crops. While we expand our avocado plantings, we expect to do so on an opportunistic basis in locations that we believe offer a record of historical profitability.

Other Operations

With respect to our rental operations and real estate development activities, key elements of our strategy include the following:

•Rental and Housing Units. Our housing, commercial and land rental operations provide us with a consistent, dependable source of cash flow that helps to fund our overall activities. Additionally, we believe our housing rental operation allows us to offer a unique benefit to our employees.

•Opportunistically Lease Land to Third-Party Crop Farmers. We regularly monitor the profitability of our fruit-producing acreage to ensure acceptable per acre returns. When we determine that leasing the land to third-party row crop farmers would be more profitable than farming the land, we intend to seek third-party row crop tenants.

•Selectively and Responsibly Develop our Agricultural Land. We recognize that long-term strategies are required for successful real estate development activities. We thus intend to maintain our position as a responsible agricultural landowner and major employer in Ventura County while focusing our real estate development activities on those agricultural land parcels that we believe offer the best opportunities to demonstrate our long-term vision for our community.

Customers

We market and sell our lemons directly to our food service, wholesale and retail customers in the United States, Canada, Asia, Australia, Europe and certain other international markets. We sold lemons to approximately 190 U.S. and international customers during fiscal year 2023. We sell our avocados and oranges to third-party packinghouses and our wine grapes to wine producers.

Competition

The agribusiness crop markets are intensely competitive, but no single producer has any significant market power over any market segments, as is consistent with the production of most agricultural commodities. Generally, there are a large number of global producers that sell through joint marketing organizations and cooperatives. Fruit is also sold to independent packers, both public and private, who then sell to their own customer base. Customers are typically large retail chains, food service 
companies, industrial manufacturers and distributors who sell and deliver to smaller customers in local markets throughout the world. In the purest sense, our largest competitors in our agribusiness segments are other citrus and avocado producers in California, Mexico, Chile, Argentina and Florida, a number of which are members of cooperatives such as Sunkist or have selling relationships with third-party packinghouses similar to that of Limoneira. Our lemons and oranges also compete with other 
fruits and vegetables for the share of consumer expenditures devoted to fresh fruit and vegetables: apples, pears, melons, pineapples and other tropical fruit. Avocado products compete in the supermarket with hummus products and other dips and salsas. For our specific crops, the size of the U.S. market is approximately $586 million for lemons, both fresh and juice, approximately $500 million for avocados, and approximately $1.5 billion for oranges, both fresh and juice. Competition in the 
various agribusiness markets is affected by reliability of supply, product quality, brand recognition and perception, price and the ability to satisfy changing customer preferences through innovative product offerings.

The sale and leasing of residential, commercial and industrial real estate is very competitive, with competition coming from numerous and varied sources throughout California. Our greatest direct competition for each of our current real estate development properties in Ventura County comes from other residential and commercial developments in nearby areas.

Resources and Raw Materials

In our fresh lemons and lemon packing segments, paper is considered a material raw product for our business because most of our products are packed in cardboard cartons for shipment. Paper is readily available and we have numerous suppliers for such material. In our agribusiness division, petroleum-based products such as herbicides and pesticides are considered raw materials and we have numerous suppliers for these products.

Intellectual Property

We have numerous trademarks and brands under which we market and sell our fruits, particularly lemons, domestically and internationally, many of which have been owned for decades. The material brands of Limoneira lemons include, but are not limited to, One World of Citrus®, Santa®, Paula®, Bridal Veil®, Fountain®, Golden Bowl® and Level®. These trademarks are owned by us and registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We also acquired certain lemon brands with acquisitions, 
including Kiva®, Kachina®, Oxnard Lemon and Trapani Fresh.

Seasonal Nature of Business

As with any agribusiness enterprise, our agribusiness operations are predominantly seasonal in nature. The harvest and sale of our lemons, avocados, oranges and other crops occurs in all quarters, but is generally more concentrated during our third quarter. Our lemons are generally grown and marketed throughout the year, our avocados are primarily sold from January through August and our wine grapes are primarily sold in September and October.

Environmental and Regulatory Matters

Our agribusiness and real estate development divisions are subject to a broad range of evolving federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. For example, the growing, packing, storing and distributing of our products is extensively regulated by various federal and state agencies. The California State Department of Food and Agriculture oversees our packing and processing of lemons and conducts tests for fruit quality and packaging standards. We are also subject to laws and 
regulations that govern the use of pesticides and other potentially hazardous substances and the treatment, handling, storage and disposal of materials and waste and the remediation of contaminated properties. Advertising of our products is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission and our operations are subject to certain health and safety regulations, including those issued under the Occupational Safety and Health Act.

We seek to comply at all times with all such laws and regulations and to obtain any necessary permits and licenses, and we are not aware of any instances of material non-compliance. We believe our facilities and practices are sufficient to maintain compliance with applicable governmental laws, regulations, permits and licenses. Nevertheless, there is no guarantee that we will be able to comply with any future laws and regulations for necessary permits and licenses. Our failure to comply with 
applicable laws and regulations or obtain any necessary permits and licenses could subject us to civil remedies including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions. These remedies can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

For a discussion of the various risks we face from regulation and compliance matters, see Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report.

Human Capital Resources

As of October 31, 2023, we had 257 employees, of which 100 were salaried and 157 were hourly. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are good.

We believe that an environment of diversity, inclusion and belonging fosters innovation, strengthens our global workforce, and drives our ability to serve customers. Our global presence is strengthened by having a workforce that reflects the diversity of the customers we serve and by maintaining an environment in which such diversity contributes to our mission.

Limoneira is committed to protecting the human rights, safety and dignity of the people who contribute to the success of our business. We are committed to improving the lives of all our stakeholders by helping to provide access to our products and increasing the diversity of our workforce. We also seek to support the welfare of the people who produce, process and harvest the products we sell. We have several diversity, inclusion and belonging efforts and programs to better ensure that we are 
supporting our employees.

Limoneira’s overall culture emphasizes the health and safety of our employees and the customers we serve. Limoneira has an Illness and Injury Prevention Plan (IIPP), a Safety Guide and conforms to and follows regulations and guidelines set forth by OSHA in all facilities and operations. Where a particular jurisdiction's guidelines, such as Cal/OSHA, are different from the OSHA standard, Limoneira adheres to the most extensive guidelines. We have excellent results from our safety programs 
compared to similar companies within our industry.

We strive to be a great place for our employees to work and live. We offer competitive pay and best-in-class benefits, including a 401k plan with matching contribution opportunities, comprehensive paid healthcare plans, wellness programs and tuition reimbursement.

We own and maintain 238 residential housing units located in Ventura County, California. We lease these housing units to employees, former employees and outside tenants. Our residential units provide affordable housing to many of our employees, including our agribusiness employees. Employees live close to their work, which reduces traffic and commuting times. This unique employment benefit helps us maintain a dependable, long-term employee base. We partner with some local schools to provide 
transportation for residents.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Risks Related to Our Business Approach

We cannot assure you that our evaluation of potential strategic alternatives to enhance value for stockholders will be successful; and there may be negative impacts on our business and stock price as a result of the process of exploring strategic alternatives.

On December 1, 2023, the Company announced the commencement of a process to explore strategic alternatives, which could include, but not be limited to, a sale of all or parts of the Company, merger or other transaction. The Board has not set a timetable for the completion of this review process and there can be no assurance that it will result in any transaction or outcome. Whether the process will result in any additional transactions, our ability to complete any transaction, and if our Board 
decides to pursue one or more transactions, will depend on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control. Such factors include the interest of potential acquirers or strategic partners in a potential transaction, the value potential acquirers or strategic partners attribute to our businesses and their respective prospects, market conditions, interest rates and industry trends.

Our stock price may be adversely affected if the evaluation does not result in additional transactions or if one or more transactions are consummated on terms that investors view as unfavorable to us. Even if one or more additional transactions are completed, there can be no assurance that any such transactions will be successful or have a positive effect on stockholder value. Our Board may also determine that no additional transaction is in the best interest of our stockholders. In addition, 
our financial results and operations could be adversely affected by the strategic process and by the uncertainty regarding its outcome.

The attention of management and our Board could be diverted from our core business operations. We have diverted capital and other resources to the process that otherwise could have been used in our business operations, and we will continue to do so until the process is completed.

We could incur substantial expenses associated with identifying and evaluating potential strategic alternatives, including those related to employee retention payments, equity compensation, severance pay and legal, accounting and financial advisor fees. In addition, the process could lead us to lose or fail to attract, retain and motivate key employees, and to lose or fail to attract customers or business partners. Furthermore, it could expose us to litigation. The public announcement of a 
strategic alternative may also yield a negative impact on operating results if prospective or existing service providers are reluctant to commit to new or renewal contracts or if existing customers decide to move their business to a competitor.

We do not intend to disclose developments or provide updates on the progress or status of the strategic process until our Board deems further disclosure is appropriate or required. Accordingly, speculation regarding any developments related to the review of strategic alternatives and perceived uncertainties related to the future of the Company could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly.

Risks Related to Our Agribusiness Operations

Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, including earthquakes and wildfires, and other natural conditions, including the effects of climate change, could impose significant costs and losses on our business.

Fresh produce is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are quite common and may occur with higher frequency or be less predictable in the future due to the effects of climate change. Unfavorable growing conditions can reduce both crop size and crop quality. In extreme cases, entire harvests may be lost in some geographic areas. We purchase crop insurance for certain crops which partially mitigates our exposure.

All of our crops are subject to damage from frosts and freezes, and this has happened periodically in the past. In some cases, the fruit is damaged or ruined; in the case of extended periods of cold, the trees can also be damaged or killed.

Additionally, a significant portion of our agricultural plantings and our corporate headquarters are located in a region of California that is prone to natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires. For example, in December 2017, high winds and the related Southern California wildfires caused a brief power outage at our Santa Paula, California packinghouse and destroyed 14 of our farm worker housing units. While our orchards did not suffer significant damage in the wildfire, the potential 
for significant damage to a substantial amount of our plantings from a natural disaster in the future continues to exist. Furthermore, if a natural disaster or other event occurs that prevents us from using all or a significant portion of our corporate headquarters, as a result of a power outage or otherwise, or that damages critical infrastructure, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible for us to continue our business for a substantial amount of time.

For the foregoing reasons, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, including earthquakes and wildfires, or other natural conditions, including the effects of climate change, could severely disrupt our operations, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.

Our agricultural plantings are potentially subject to damage from disease and pests, which could impose losses on our business and the prevention of which could impose significant additional costs on us.

Fresh produce is vulnerable to crop disease and to pests (e.g., Mediterranean Fruit Fly and the Asian Citrus Psyllid (“ACP”)), which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions.

ACP is an aphid-like insect that is a serious pest to all citrus plants because it can transmit the disease Huanglongbing (“HLB”) when it feeds on the plants' leaves and trees. ACP is a federal action quarantine pest subject to interstate and international quarantine restrictions by the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”), including a prohibition on the movement of nursery stock out of quarantine areas and a requirement that all citrus fruit be cleaned of leaves and stems prior to 
movement out of the quarantine area. Due to the discovery of ACP in our orchards, we have experienced costs related to the quarantine and treatment of ACP.

In September 2023, two HLB-positive citrus trees were detected on one residential property in the City of Santa Paula, California. In October 2023, the California Department of Food and Agriculture declared a mandatory five-mile-radius quarantine area, which includes approximately 1,100 acres of Limoneira-owned lemon orchards. The quarantine area restricts the movement of citrus fruit, trees and related plant material subject to certain protocols. Additional costs to spray insecticides on our 
orchards within the quarantine area are estimated to be $0.3 million to $0.4 million in fiscal year 2024. There can be no assurance that HLB will not be detected on Limoneira orchards in the future.

The costs to control these diseases and other infestations vary depending on the severity of the damage and the extent of the plantings affected. Moreover, there can be no assurance that available technologies to control such infestations will continue to be effective. These infestations can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our strategy of marketing and selling our lemons directly to our food service, wholesale and retail customers may not continue to be successful.

Directly obtaining and retaining customers, particularly chain stores and other large customers, is highly competitive, and the prices or other terms of our sales arrangements may not be sufficient to retain existing business, maintain current levels of profitability or obtain new business. Industry consolidation (horizontally and vertically) and other factors have increased the buying leverage of the major grocery retailers in our markets, which may put further downward pressure on our pricing 
and volume and could adversely affect our results of operations.

Our earnings are sensitive to fluctuations in market supply and prices and demand for our products.

Excess supply often causes severe price competition in our industry. Growing conditions in various parts of the world, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts and freezes, as well as diseases and pests, are primary factors affecting market prices because of their influence on the supply and quality of product. The COVID-19 pandemic also reduced the demand for our products resulting in excess supply.

Fresh produce is highly perishable and generally must be brought to market and sold soon after harvest. Some items, such as avocados and oranges, must be sold more quickly, while other items, such as lemons, can be held in cold storage for longer periods of time. The selling price received for each type of produce depends on all of these factors, including the availability and quality of the produce item in the market and the availability and quality of competing types of produce.

In addition, general public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food products could reduce demand and prices for some of our products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products that we produce for health or other reasons, and we are unable to modify our products or to develop products that satisfy new consumer preferences, there will be a decreased demand for our products. However, even if market prices are unfavorable, 
produce items which are ready to be, or have been, harvested must be brought to market promptly. A decrease in the selling price received for our products due to the factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our earnings may be subject to seasonal variability.

Our earnings may be affected by seasonal factors, including:

• the seasonality of our supplies and consumer demand;

• the ability to process products during critical harvest periods; and

• the timing and effects of ripening and perishability.

Increases in commodity or raw product costs, such as fuel and paper, could adversely affect our operating results.

Many factors may affect the cost and supply of fresh produce, including external conditions, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, changes in governmental laws and regulations, agricultural programs, severe and prolonged weather conditions and natural disasters. Increased costs for purchased fruit have negatively impacted our operating results in the past, and there can be no assurance that they will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.

The price of various commodities can significantly affect our costs. The cost of petroleum-based products is volatile and there can be no assurance that there will not be further increases in such costs in the future. If the price of oil rises, the costs of our herbicides and pesticides can be significantly impacted.

The cost of paper is also significant to us because some of our products are packed in cardboard boxes for shipment. If the price of paper increases and we are not able to effectively pass these price increases along to our customers, then our operating income will decrease. Increased costs for paper have negatively impacted our operating income in the past, and there can be no assurance that these increased costs will not adversely affect our operating results in the future.

Increases in labor, personnel and benefits costs could adversely affect our operating results.

We primarily utilize labor contractors to grow, harvest and deliver our fruit to our lemon packinghouse or outside packing facilities. We utilize a combination of employees and labor contractors to process our lemons in our lemon packing facility. Our employees and contractors are in demand by other agribusinesses and other industries. Shortages of labor could delay our harvesting or lemon processing activities or could result in increases in labor costs.

Our labor contractors and we are subject to government mandated wage and benefit laws and regulations. For example, the State of California, where a substantial number of our labor contractors are located, passed regulations that increased minimum wage rates from $15.00 per hour to $15.50 per hour, effective January 1, 2023, and will increase to $16.00 per hour in 2024 due to a cost-of-living increase provision found in the state's minimum wage law. The State of Arizona wage rates rise each year
based on the annual cost of living and increased from $12.80 per hour to $13.85 per hour, effective January 1, 2023, and will increase to $14.35 per hour in 2024. In addition, current or future federal or state healthcare legislation and regulation, including the Affordable Care Act, may increase our medical costs or the medical costs of our labor contractors that could be passed on to us.

Changes in immigration laws could impact the ability of Limoneira to harvest its crops.

We engage third parties to provide personnel for our harvesting operations. The availability and number of such workers is subject to decrease if there are changes in U.S. immigration laws. The states in which we operate are considering or have already adopted new immigration laws or enforcement programs, and the U.S. Congress and the Department of Homeland Security from time to time consider and may implement changes to federal immigration laws, regulations or enforcement programs. Immigration 
laws have recently been an area of considerable focus by the Department of Homeland Security, with enforcement operations taking place across the country, resulting in arrests and detentions of unauthorized workers. Termination of a significant number of personnel who are found to be unauthorized workers or the scarcity of available personnel to harvest our agricultural products could cause harvesting costs to increase or could lead to the loss of product that is not timely harvested, which 
could have a material adverse effect to our citrus grove operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

The lack of sufficient water would severely impact our ability to produce crops or develop real estate.

The average rainfall in Ventura and San Luis Obispo Counties in California is substantially below amounts required to grow crops and therefore we are dependent on our surface water rights and rights to pump water from underground aquifers. Extended periods of drought in California may put additional pressure on the use and availability of water for agricultural uses, and in some cases, governmental authorities have diverted water to other uses. As California has grown in population, there are 
increasing and multiple pressures on the use and distribution of water, which many view as a finite resource. Lack of available potable water can also limit real estate development.

Our water resources include water rights, usage rights and pumping rights to the water in aquifers under, and canals that run through, the land we own. Water for our farming operations is sourced from the existing water resources associated with our land, which includes rights to water in the adjudicated Santa Paula Basin (aquifer) and the un-adjudicated Fillmore and Paso Robles Basins (aquifers). We use federal project water in Arizona from the Colorado River through the YMIDD. We also have 
acquired water rights in Chile.

California experienced above average precipitation during the 2022 - 2023 rainfall season after experiencing three years of below average precipitation and drought conditions. The above average precipitation helped to alleviate the drought conditions in California. As of October 31, 2023, the state was free from moderate drought conditions and Ventura County was free from any drought conditions. We continue to assess the impact drought conditions may have on our California orchards.

In August 2021, the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (the “Bureau”) declared a Level 1 shortage condition at Lake Mead in the Lower Colorado River Basin for the first time ever, requiring shortage reductions and water savings contributions for states in the southwest. In August 2022, the Bureau announced Lake Mead to operate in a Tier 2 shortage, which further increased water restrictions. As a result, in January 2023, Arizona forfeited approximately 21% of the state's yearly allotment of water from 
Lake Mead. In August 2023, the Bureau announced Lake Mead will operate in a Tier 1 shortage in 2024, which requires Arizona to forfeit approximately 18% of the state's yearly allotment of water from Lake Mead. In response to these water shortages, we entered into fallowing agreements during fiscal years 2023 and 2022 and continue to assess the impact these reductions may have on our Arizona orchards.

For fiscal year 2023, irrigation costs for our agricultural operations were higher than fiscal year 2022. Costs may increase as we pump more water than our historical averages and federal, state and local water delivery infrastructure costs may increase to access these limited water supplies. We have an ongoing plan for irrigation improvements continuing in fiscal year 2024 that includes drilling new wells and upgrading existing wells and irrigation systems.

We believe we have access to adequate supplies of water for our agricultural operations as well as our real estate development and rental operations and currently do not anticipate that future drought conditions will have a material impact on our operating results. However, if future drought conditions are worse than prior drought conditions or if regulatory responses to such conditions limit our access to water, our business could be negatively impacted by these conditions and responses in 
terms of access to water and/or cost of water.

The use of herbicides, pesticides and other potentially hazardous substances in our operations may lead to environmental damage and result in increased costs to us.

We use herbicides, pesticides and other potentially hazardous substances in the operation of our business. We may have to pay for the costs or damages associated with the improper application, accidental release or use or misuse of such substances. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover such costs or damages or may not continue to be available at a price or under terms that are satisfactory to us. In such cases, payment of such costs or damages could have a material adverse effect on our 
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Environmental and other regulation of our business, including potential climate change regulation, could adversely impact us by increasing our production cost or restricting our ability to import certain products into the United States.

Our business depends on the use of fertilizers, pesticides and other agricultural products. The use and disposal of these products in some jurisdictions are subject to regulation by various agencies. A decision by a regulatory agency to significantly restrict the use of such products that have traditionally been used in the cultivation of one of our principal products could have an adverse impact on us. Under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, the Federal Food, Drug and 
Cosmetic Act and the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996, the EPA is undertaking a series of regulatory actions relating to the evaluation and use of pesticides in the food industry. Similarly, in the EU, regulation (EC) No. 1107/2009 fundamentally changed the pesticide approval process to hazard criteria based on the intrinsic properties of the substance. These actions and future actions regarding the availability and use of pesticides could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, if a 
regulatory agency were to determine that we are not in compliance with a regulation in that agency’s jurisdiction, this could result in substantial penalties and a ban on the sale of part or all of our products in that jurisdiction.

A global economic downturn may have an adverse impact on participants in our industry, which cannot be fully predicted.

The full impact of a global economic downturn on customers, vendors and other business partners, such as that seen with the COVID-19 pandemic, cannot be anticipated. For example, major customers or vendors may have financial challenges unrelated to us that could result in a decrease in their business with us or, in extreme cases, cause them to file for bankruptcy protection. Similarly, parties to contracts may be forced to breach their obligations under those contracts. Although we exercise 
prudent oversight of the credit ratings and financial strength of our major business partners and seek to diversify our risk to any single business partner, there can be no assurance that there will not be a bank, insurance company, supplier, customer or other financial partner that is unable to meet its contractual commitments to us. Similarly, stresses and pressures in the industry may result in impacts on our business partners and competitors, which could have wide-ranging impacts on the 
future of the industry.

We are subject to the risk of product contamination and product liability claims.

The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all 
applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. 
Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance, however we cannot be sure that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage.

We are subject to transportation risks.

An extended interruption in our ability to ship our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, any extended disruption in the distribution of our products or supply chain issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe we are adequately insured and would attempt to transport our products by alternative means if we were to experience an 
interruption due to strike, natural disasters or otherwise, we cannot be sure that we would be able to do so or be successful in doing so in a timely and cost-effective manner.

Events or rumors relating to LIMONEIRA or our other trademarks and related brands could significantly impact our business.

Consumer and institutional recognition of the LIMONEIRA, One World of Citrus®, Santa®, Paula®, Bridal Veil®, Fountain®, Golden Bowl®, Level®, Kiva®, Kachina®, Oxnard Lemon and Trapani Fresh trademarks and related brands and the association of these brands with high quality and safe food products are an integral part of our business. The occurrence of any events or rumors that cause consumers and/or institutions to no longer associate these brands with high quality and safe food products may 
materially adversely affect the value of our brand names and demand for our products.

Government regulation could increase our costs of production and increase legal and regulatory expenses.

Growing, packaging, storing and distributing food products are activities subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation, as well as foreign regulation. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), the USDA and various state and local public health and agricultural agencies regulate these aspects of our operations. Our business is subject to the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act to ensure food safety. This Act provides direct recall authority to the FDA and includes a number of 
other provisions designed to enhance food safety, including increased inspections by the FDA of food facilities. The Federal Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, which specifies standards for the sale, shipment, inspection and rejection of agricultural products, governs our relationships with our fresh food suppliers with respect to the grading and commercial acceptance of product shipments. Import and export controls and similar laws and regulations, in both the United States and elsewhere 
affect our business. Issues such as health and safety, which may slow or otherwise restrict imports and exports, could adversely affect our business. In addition, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could require us to make material expenditures or otherwise adversely affect the way that we have historically operated our business.

Our strategy to expand international supply and marketing may not be successful and may subject us to risks associated with doing business in corrupt environments.

While we intend to expand our lemon supply sources to international markets and explore opportunities to expand our marketing of lemons, we may not be successful in implementing this strategy. Additionally, in many countries outside of the United States, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar local anti-bribery laws. These
laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

We depend on our infrastructure to have sufficient capacity to handle our annual lemon production needs.

We have an infrastructure that has sufficient capacity for our lemon production needs, but if we lose machinery or facilities due to natural disasters or mechanical failure, we may not be able to operate at a sufficient capacity to meet our lemon production needs. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could impact our results of operations and our financial condition.

Risks Related to Our Indebtedness

We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations.

To service our debt, we require a certain amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash, make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance, cash flow and capital resources depend upon prevailing economic conditions and various financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include among others:

• economic and competitive conditions;

• changes in laws and regulations;

• operating difficulties, increased operating costs or pricing pressures we may experience; and

• delays in implementing any strategic projects.

If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. If we are required to take any actions referred to above, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms 
acceptable to us, or at all, or that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt agreements.

Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks.

Our revolving and non-revolving credit and term loan facilities contain various restrictive covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions. In particular, these agreements limit our ability to, among other things:

• incur additional indebtedness;

• make certain investments or acquisitions;

• create certain liens on our assets;

• engage in certain types of transactions with affiliates;

• merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all our assets; and

• transfer and sell assets.

Our revolving and non-revolving credit facility with the AgWest Farm Credit Facility contain a financial covenant that requires us to maintain compliance with a specific debt service coverage ratio on an annual basis. In September 2023, Farm Credit West, PCA (the “Lender”) modified the covenant to defer measurement as of October 31, 2023 and resume a debt service coverage ratio of 1.25:1.0 measured as of October 31, 2024. Our failure to comply with this covenant in the future may result in the 
declaration of an event of default under our AgWest Farm Credit Facility.

Any or all of these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under our line of credit and term loan facilities. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any credit facility governing our current and future indebtedness could result 
in a default under that facility and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities, the applicable lender(s) could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and, with respect to our revolving credit facility, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, our lenders 
could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness were to accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness.

Despite our current indebtedness levels and the restrictive covenants set forth in agreements governing our indebtedness, we may still incur significant additional indebtedness, including secured and guaranteed indebtedness. Incurring more indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our overall indebtedness.

Subject to the restrictions in our credit facilities, we may incur significant additional indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase.

In January 2018, LLCB entered into a $45.0 million unsecured Line of Credit Loan Agreement and Promissory Note (the “Loan”) with Bank of America, N.A. to fund early development activities. Effective as of February 22, 2023, the Loan maturity date was extended to February 22, 2024, and the maximum borrowing amount was reduced to $35.0 million. The Loan contains certain customary default provisions and LLCB may prepay any amounts outstanding under the Loan without penalty. The obligations under 
the Loan are guaranteed by certain principals from Lewis and us. Defaults by LLCB could increase our indebtedness.

Some of our debt is based on variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expenses in the event of an increase in the interest rates.

Our AgWest Farm Credit Facility is subject to variable rates, which generally change as interest rates change. We bear the risk that the rates we are charged by our lender will increase faster than the earnings and cash flow of our business, which could reduce profitability, adversely affect our ability to service our debt, cause us to breach covenants contained in our AgWest Farm Credit Facility, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of 
operations. Our Company’s debt agreement with AgWest Farm Credit used LIBOR as a reference rate, which was converted to the Secure Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) on January 1, 2023.

Global capital and credit market issues affect our liquidity, increase our borrowing costs and may affect the operations of our suppliers and customers.

The global capital and credit markets have experienced increased volatility and disruption over the past several years, making it more difficult for companies to access those markets. We depend in part on stable, liquid and well-functioning capital and credit markets to fund our operations. Although we believe that our operating cash flows and existing credit facilities will permit us to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased 
volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy.

Risks Related to Our Real Estate Development Operations

We are involved in a cyclical industry and are affected by changes in general and local economic conditions.

The real estate development industry is cyclical and is affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, including:

• employment levels;

• availability of financing;

• interest rates;

• consumer confidence;

• demand for the developed product, whether residential or industrial;

• supply of similar product, whether residential or industrial; and

• local, state and federal government regulation, including eminent domain laws, which may result in taking for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth.

The process of project development and the commitment of financial and other resources occur long before a real estate project comes to market. A real estate project could come to market at a time when the real estate market is depressed. It is also possible in a rural area like ours that no market for the project will develop as projected.

A recession in the global economy, or a downturn in national or regional economic conditions, could adversely impact our real estate development business.

Future economic instability or tightening in the credit markets could lead to another housing market collapse, which could adversely affect our real estate development operations and those of our equity method investments. Future real estate sales, revenues, financial condition, results of operations and equity in earnings of investments could suffer as a result. Our business is sensitive to economic conditions in California, where our real estate development properties are located.

Higher interest rates and lack of available financing can have significant impacts on the real estate industry.

Higher interest rates generally impact the real estate industry by making it harder for buyers to qualify for financing, which can lead to a decrease in the demand for residential, commercial or industrial sites. Any decrease in demand will negatively impact our proposed developments. In 2023 and 2022, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System took actions in tightening the monetary policy that resulted in higher interest rates prevailing in the marketplace. Market interest rates may 
continue to increase in the future and the increase may materially and negatively affect us. Lack of available credit to finance real estate purchases can also negatively impact demand. Any downturn in the economy or consumer confidence can also be expected to result in reduced housing demand and slower industrial development, which would negatively impact the demand for land we are developing.

We are subject to various land use regulations and require governmental approvals for our developments that could be denied.

In planning and developing our land, we are subject to various local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, infrastructure design, subdivision of land and construction. All of our new developments require amending existing general plan and zoning designations, so it is possible that our entitlement applications could be denied. In addition, the zoning that ultimately is approved could include density provisions that would limit the number of homes and 
other structures that could be built within the boundaries of a particular area, which could adversely impact the financial returns from a given project. In addition, in the past, many states, cities and counties (including Ventura County) have approved various “slow growth” or “urban limit line” measures.

If unforeseen regulatory challenges with East Areas I and II occur, we may not be able to develop these projects as planned.

Third-party litigation could increase the time and cost of our real estate development efforts.

The land use approval processes we must follow to ultimately develop our projects have become increasingly complex. Moreover, the statutes, regulations and ordinances governing the approval processes provide third parties the opportunity to challenge the proposed plans and approvals. As a result, the prospect of third-party challenges to planned real estate developments provides additional uncertainties in real estate development planning and entitlements. Third-party challenges in the form of 
litigation would, by their nature, adversely affect the length of time and the cost required to obtain the necessary approvals. In addition, adverse decisions arising from any litigation would increase the costs and length of time to obtain ultimate approval of a project and could adversely affect the design, scope, plans and profitability of a project.

We are subject to environmental regulations and opposition from environmental groups that could cause delays and increase the costs of our real estate development efforts or preclude such development entirely.

Environmental laws that apply to a given site can vary greatly according to the site’s location and condition, the present and former uses of the site, and the presence or absence of sensitive elements like wetlands and endangered species. Environmental laws and conditions may (i) result in delays, (ii) cause us to incur additional costs for compliance, mitigation and processing land use applications, or (iii) preclude development in specific areas. In addition, in California, third parties have
the ability to file litigation challenging the approval of a project, which they usually do by alleging inadequate disclosure and mitigation of the environmental impacts of the project. While we have worked with representatives of various environmental interests and wildlife agencies to minimize and mitigate the impacts of our planned projects, certain groups opposed to development may oppose our projects vigorously, so litigation challenging their approval could occur. Recent concerns over the 
impact of development on water availability and global warming increases the breadth of potential obstacles that our developments face.

Our real estate development projects are concentrated entirely in California.

All of our real estate development projects are located in California, and our business is especially sensitive to the economic conditions within California. Any adverse change in the economic climate of California, and any adverse change in the political or regulatory climate of California or Ventura County, could adversely affect our real estate development activities. Ultimately, our ability to sell or lease lots may decline as a result of weak economic conditions or restrictive regulations.

If the real estate industry weakens or instability of the mortgage industry and commercial real estate financing exists, it could have an adverse effect on our real estate activities.

If the residential real estate market weakens or instability of the mortgage industry and commercial real estate financing exists, our residential real estate business could be adversely affected. An excess supply of homes available due to foreclosures or the expectation of deflation in house prices could also have a negative impact on our ability to sell our inventory when it becomes available.

We rely on contractual arrangements with third-party advisors to assist us in carrying out our real estate development projects and are subject to risks associated with such arrangements.

We utilize third-party contractor and consultant arrangements to assist us in operating our real estate development division. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing direct control over this business division. For example, our third-party advisors could fail to take actions required for our real estate development businesses despite their contractual obligation to do so. If the third-party advisors fail to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to rely on
legal remedies under the law, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that our third-party advisors would always act in our best interests.

If we are unable to complete land development projects within forecasted time and budget expectations, if at all, our financial results may be negatively affected.

We intend to develop land and real estate properties as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New real estate development projects have a number of risks, including the following:

• construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs;

• receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations;

• development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion;

• earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires or other natural disasters that could adversely affect a project;

• defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation;

• our ability to raise capital;

• the impact of governmental assessments such as park fees or affordable housing requirements;

• governmental restrictions on the nature and size of a project or timing of completion; and

• the potential lack of adequate building/construction capacity for large development projects.

If any development project is not completed on time or within budget, our financial results may be negatively affected.

If we are unable to obtain required land use entitlements at reasonable costs, or at all, our operating results would be adversely affected.

The financial performance of our real estate development activities is closely related to our success in obtaining land use entitlements for proposed development projects. Obtaining all of the necessary entitlements to develop a parcel of land is often difficult, costly and may take several years, or more, to complete. In some situations, we may be unable to obtain the necessary entitlements to proceed with a real estate development or may be required to alter our plans for the development. 
Delays or failures to obtain these entitlements may have a material adverse effect on our financial results.

We could experience a reduction in net income or reduced cash flows if we are unable to obtain reasonably priced financing to support our real estate development projects and land development activities.

The real estate development industry is capital intensive, and development requires significant up-front expenditures to develop land and begin real estate construction. Accordingly, we have and may continue to incur substantial indebtedness to finance our real estate development and land development activities. Although we believe that internally generated funds and current and available borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our capital and other expenditures, including additional land 
acquisition, development and construction activities, and the amounts available from such sources, may not be adequate to meet our needs. If such sources were insufficient, we would seek additional capital in the form of debt from a variety of potential sources, including bank financing. The availability of borrowed funds to be used for additional land acquisition, development and construction may be greatly reduced, and the lending community may require increased amounts of equity to be 
invested in a project by borrowers in connection with new loans. The failure to obtain sufficient capital to fund our planned expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and our results of operations in future periods.

We may encounter risks associated with the real estate joint ventures we entered into in November 2015 and October 2022 with the Lewis Group of Companies including:

• the joint ventures may not perform financially or operationally as expected;

• land values, project costs, sales absorption or other assumptions included in the development plans may cause the joint ventures’ operating results to be less than expected;

• the joint ventures may not be able to obtain project loans on acceptable terms;

• the joint venture partners may not be able to provide capital to the joint ventures in the event external financing or project cash flows are not sufficient to finance the joint ventures’ operations;

• the joint venture partners may not manage the project properly; and

• disagreements could occur between the joint venture partners that could affect the operating results of the joint ventures or could result in a sale of a partner’s interest or the joint ventures at undesirable values.

We may encounter other risks that could impact our ability to develop our land.

We may also encounter other difficulties in developing our land, including:

• natural risks, such as geological and soil problems, earthquakes, fire, heavy rains and flooding and heavy winds;

• shortages of qualified trades people;

• reliance on local contractors, who may be inadequately capitalized;

• shortages of materials;

• increases in the cost of certain materials; and

• environmental remediation costs.

General Risks and Risks Related to Our Common Stock

Our business is highly competitive and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current market share.

Many companies compete in our different businesses. However, only a few well-established companies operate on an international, national and regional basis with one or several product lines. We face strong competition from these and other companies in all our product lines.

Important factors with respect to our competitors include the following:

• Some of our competitors may have greater operating flexibility and, in certain cases, this may permit them to respond better or more quickly to changes in the industry or to introduce new products and packaging more quickly and with greater marketing support.

• We cannot predict the pricing or promotional actions of our competitors or whether those actions will have a negative effect on us.

There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete effectively with our present and future competitors, and our ability to compete could be materially adversely affected by our debt levels and debt service requirements.

Currency exchange fluctuation may impact the results of our operations.

We distribute our products both nationally and internationally. Our international sales are primarily transacted in U.S. dollars. Our results of operations are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates in both sourcing and selling locations. In the past, periods of a strong U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have led international customers, particularly in Asia, to find alternative sources of fruit.

We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects.

We currently depend heavily on the services of our key management personnel. The loss of any key personnel could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel.

Inflation can have a significant adverse effect on our operations.

Inflation can have a major impact on our agribusiness operations. The farming operations are most affected by escalating costs, unpredictable revenues (due to an oversupply of certain crops) and very high irrigation water costs. High fixed water costs related to our farm lands will continue to adversely affect earnings. Prices received for many of our products are dependent upon prevailing market conditions and commodity prices. Therefore, it is difficult for us to accurately predict revenue and
we cannot pass on cost increases caused by general inflation, except to the extent reflected in market conditions and commodity prices.

System security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price.

Computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and
applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, 
cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, packing, distribution or other critical functions.

Portions of our IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other 
processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation.

The acquisition of other businesses could pose risks to our operating income.

We intend to continue to consider acquisition prospects that complement our business. While we are not currently a party to any agreement with respect to any acquisitions, we may acquire other businesses in the future. Future acquisitions by us could result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, and increased debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. 
Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the integration of the acquired operations, diversion of management’s attention to other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience, and potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. We may be unable to successfully integrate businesses or the personnel of any business that might be acquired in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the 
market price of our common stock.

The value of our common stock could be volatile.

Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. The risks described here are not the only ones we will face. If any of these risks or other risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In such event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock
could lose all or part of their investment.

The overall market and the price of our common stock may fluctuate greatly and we cannot assure you that you will be able to resell shares at or above market price. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including:

• quarterly fluctuations in our operating results;

• changes in investors’ and analysts’ perception of the business risks and conditions of our business;

• our ability to meet the earnings estimates and other performance expectations of financial analysts or investors;

• unfavorable commentary or downgrades of our stock by equity research analysts;

• fluctuations in the stock prices of our peer companies or in stock markets in general; and

• general economic or political conditions.

Concentrated ownership of our common stock creates a risk of sudden change in our share price.

As of October 31, 2023, directors and members of our executive management team beneficially owned or controlled approximately 3.3% of our common stock. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The sale by any of our large stockholders of a significant portion of that stockholder’s holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the registration of any 
significant amount of additional shares of our common stock will have the immediate effect of increasing the public float of our common stock and any such increase may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate significantly.

Our charter documents contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control.

Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions include the following:

• division of our board of directors into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term;

• removal of directors by stockholders by a supermajority of two-thirds of the outstanding shares;

• ability of the board of directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock in series without stockholder approval; and

• prohibitions on our stockholders that prevent them from acting by written consent and limitations on calling special meetings.

We incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded company.

As a company with publicly traded securities, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules promulgated by the SEC and NASDAQ, require us to adopt corporate governance practices applicable to U.S. public companies. These rules and regulations may increase our legal and financial compliance costs, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties

Real Estate

We own our corporate headquarters in Santa Paula, California. We own approximately 4,300 acres of farm land in California, 1,300 acres in Yuma, Arizona, 3,500 acres in La Serena, Chile and 1,200 acres in Jujuy, Argentina. We also lease approximately 100 acres of land and have an interest in a partnership that owns approximately 200 acres of land. The land used for agricultural plantings consists of approximately 3,500 acres of lemons, approximately 1,200 acres of avocados, approximately 100 
acres of oranges and approximately 400 acres of other crops. We believe that our properties are generally suitable to meet our production needs for the foreseeable future. Our agribusiness land holdings are summarized below as of October 31, 2023 ($ in thousands):

  Ranch Name                            Acres                  Book Value                  Acquisition Date      Book Value  
                                                                                                                   per Acre  
  Limoneira/Olivelands Ranch            1,700                  $                  767      1907, 1913, 1920            $451  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  La Campana Ranch                        300                  758                                     1964          $2,527  
  Orchard Farm Ranch                                1,100                       3,240                  1990          $2,945  
  Rancho La Cuesta Ranch                  200                                   2,899                  1994         $14,495  
  Windfall Farms                          700                                  16,162                  2009         $23,089  
  Associated Citrus Packers                         1,300                      14,500                  2013         $11,154  
  Pan de Azucar                           200                                   2,395                  2017         $11,975  
  San Pablo                                         3,300                       5,837                  2018          $1,769  
  Santa Clara                                       1,200                       8,600                  2019          $7,167  
  Other agribusiness land                 600                  574                                  various            $957  
  Total agribusiness land holdings                 10,600      $               55,732                                        

The book value of our agribusiness land holdings of approximately $55.7 million differs from the land balance of $56.0 million included in property, plant and equipment in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report as the table above excludes land holdings related to our other operations.

We own our packing facilities located in Santa Paula, California and Yuma, Arizona, where we process and pack our lemons as well as lemons for other growers. We have a 5.5 acre, one-megawatt ground-based photovoltaic solar generator and one-megawatt roof array, which provides the majority of the power to operate our packing facility.

We own and maintain 238 residential units in Ventura County that we lease to our employees, former employees and outside tenants and we own several commercial office buildings and properties that are leased to various tenants.

We own and have equity investments in real estate development property in Ventura County, California. These properties are in various stages of development for up to approximately 800 residential units.

Water and Mineral Rights

Our water resources include water rights, usage rights and pumping rights to the water in aquifers under, and canals that run through, the land we own. We believe we have adequate supplies of water for our agribusiness segments as well as our rental and real estate development activities. Water for our farming operations located in Ventura County, California is sourced from the existing water resources associated with our land, which includes approximately 8,600 acre-feet of adjudicated water 
rights in the Santa Paula Basin (aquifer) and the un-adjudicated Fillmore Basin (aquifer). Our Windfall Farms property located in San Luis Obispo County, California obtains water from wells that derive water from the Paso Robles Basin (aquifer). Our Associated farming operations in Yuma, Arizona source water from the Colorado River through the YMIDD, where we have access to approximately 11,700 acre-feet of Class 3 Colorado River water rights. We use ground water provided by wells and surface 
water for our PDA and San Pablo farming operations in La Serena, Chile and our Trapani Fresh farming operations in Argentina.

Our rights to extract groundwater from the Santa Paula Basin are governed by the Santa Paula Basin Judgment (the “Judgment”). The Judgment was entered into in 1996 by stipulation among the United Water Conservation District, the City of Ventura and various members of the Santa Paula Basin Pumpers Association (the “Association”). The Association is a not-for-profit, mutual benefit corporation, which represents the interests of all overlying landowners with rights to extract groundwater from the 
Santa Paula Basin and the City of Santa Paula. We are a member of the Association and membership is governed by the Association's Bylaws.

Our California water resources include approximately 17,000 acre-feet of water affiliated with our owned properties, of which approximately 8,600 acre-feet are adjudicated. Our Yuma, Arizona water resources include approximately 11,700 acre-feet of water sourced from the Colorado River. We own shares in various not-for-profit mutual benefit water companies. Our investments in these water companies provide us with the right to receive a proportionate share of water from each of the water 
companies.

We believe water is a natural resource that is critical to economic growth in the western United States and firm, reliable water rights are essential to our sustainable business practices. Consequently, we have long been a private steward and advocate of prudent and efficient water management. We have made substantial investments in securing water and water rights in quantities that are sufficient to support and, we believe will exceed, our long-term business objectives. We strive to follow best
management practices for the diversion, conveyance, distribution and use of water. In the future, we intend to continue to provide leadership in the area of, and seek innovation opportunities that promote, increased water use efficiency and the development of new sources of supply for our neighboring communities.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

From time to time, we are a party to various lawsuits, arbitrations or mediations that arise in the ordinary course of business. The disclosure called for by Part II, Item 3 regarding our legal proceedings is incorporated by reference herein from Note 18 - Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.

PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information

Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“NASDAQ”) under the symbol “LMNR.” There is no assurance that our common stock will continue to be traded on NASDAQ or that any liquidity will exist for our stockholders.

Holders

On November 30, 2023, there were approximately 233 registered holders of our common stock. The number of registered holders includes banks and brokers who act as nominees, each of whom may represent more than one stockholder.

Dividends

The following table presents cash dividends per common share declared and paid in the periods shown.

                                             Dividend  
  2023                                                 
  Fourth Quarter Ended October 31, 2023        $0.075  
  Third Quarter Ended July 31, 2023            $0.075  
  Second Quarter Ended April 30, 2023          $0.075  
  First Quarter Ended January 31, 2023         $0.075  
  2022                                                 
  Fourth Quarter Ended October 31, 2022        $0.075  
  Third Quarter Ended July 31, 2022            $0.075  
  Second Quarter Ended April 30, 2022          $0.075  
  First Quarter Ended January 31, 2022         $0.075  

In December 2023, we declared our quarterly dividend of $0.075 per common share and we expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends at a similar rate to the extent permitted by the financial results of our business and other factors beyond management's control.

Performance Graph

The line graph above compares the percentage change in cumulative total stockholder return of our common stock registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) with (i) the cumulative total return of the Russell 2000 Index, assuming reinvestment of dividends, and (ii) the cumulative total return of Dow Jones U.S. Food Producers Index, assuming reinvestment of dividends.

Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities

None.

Purchases of Equity Securities by Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers

  Period                                      Total Number of Shares Purchased (1)                  Weighted Average Price Paid per Share                 Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs      Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs  
  August 1, 2023 - August 31, 2023            —                                                     $                                          —          —                                                                                     —                                                                                                             
  September 1, 2023 - September 30, 2023      —                                                     $                                          —          —                                                                                     —                                                                                                             
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  October 1, 2023 - October 31, 2023                                                    37,878      $                                          14.29      —                                                                                     —                                                                                                             
  Total                                                                                 37,878                                                            —                                                                                     —                                                                                                             

(1) Shares were acquired from employees in accordance with our stock-based compensation plan as a result of share withholdings to pay income tax related to the vesting and distribution of restricted stock awards.

Item 6. Reserved

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to promote understanding of the results of operations and financial condition. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, 
uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those presented under “Risk Factors” included in Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section generally discusses the results of operations for fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022. For discussion related to the results of operations and changes in financial condition for 
fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021 refer to Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our fiscal year 2022 Form 10-K, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on December 22, 2022.

Overview

Limoneira Company, a Delaware corporation, is the successor to several businesses with operations in California since 1893. We are primarily an agribusiness company founded and based in Santa Paula, California, committed to responsibly using and managing our approximately 11,100 acres of land, water resources and other assets to maximize long-term stockholder value. Our current operations consist of fruit production, sales and marketing, rental operations, real estate and capital investment 
activities.

We have three business divisions: agribusiness, rental operations and real estate development. The agribusiness division is comprised of four reportable operating segments: fresh lemons, lemon packing, avocados and other agribusiness, which includes oranges, specialty citrus, other crops and farm management services. The agribusiness division includes our core operations of farming, harvesting, lemon packing and lemon sales operations. The rental operations division includes our residential and 
commercial rentals comprised of 238 completed rental units, leased land operations and organic recycling. The real estate development division includes our investments in real estate development projects. Generally, we see our Company as a land and farming company that generates annual cash flows to support our progress into diversified real estate development activities. As real estate developments are monetized, our agriculture business will then be able to expand more rapidly into new regions
and markets.

Recent Developments - Refer to Part I, Item 1 “Fiscal Year 2023 Highlights and Recent Developments”

Results of Operations

The following table shows the results of operations ($ in thousands):

                                                           Years Ended October 31,                                                                            
                                                                              2023                              2022                     2021                 
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net revenues:                                                                                                                                               
  Agribusiness                                                                   $       174,381        97      $           179,281      $           161,381  
  Other operations                                                                         5,520         3                    5,324                    4,646  
  Total net revenues                                                                     179,901       100                  184,605                  166,027  
  Costs and expenses:                                                                                                                                         
  Agribusiness                                                                           169,169        99                  160,651                  148,492  
  Other operations                                                                         4,612         3                    4,438                    4,332  
  (Gain) loss on disposal of assets, net                                                (28,849)      (17)                  (4,500)      109                  
  Gain on legal settlement                                                               (2,269)       (1)      —                        —                    
  Selling, general and administrative                                                     26,455        16                   21,815                   19,427  
  Total costs and expenses                                                               169,118       100                  182,404                  172,360  
  Operating income (loss):                                                                                                                                    
  Agribusiness                                                                             5,212                             18,630                   12,889  
  Other operations                                                             908                              886                      314                  
  Gain (loss) on disposal of assets, net                                                  28,849                              4,500      (109)                
  Gain on legal settlement                                                                 2,269                —                        —                    
  Selling, general and administrative                                                   (26,455)                           (21,815)                 (19,427)  
  Operating income (loss)                                                                 10,783                              2,201                  (6,333)  
  Other income (expense):                                                                                                                                     
  Interest income                                                              364                              53                       379                  
  Interest expense, net of patronage dividends                               (494)                                          (2,291)                  (1,501)  
  Equity in earnings of investments, net                                                   5,322                              1,341                    3,203  
  Other (expense) income, net                                                            (2,611)                (955)                    89                   
  Total other income (expense)                                                             2,581                            (1,852)                    2,170  
  Income (loss) before income tax (provision) benefit                                     13,364                349                                  (4,163)  
  Income tax (provision) benefit                                                         (4,247)                (823)                    266                  
  Net income (loss)                                                                        9,117                (474)                                (3,897)  
  Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest                             283                              238                      456                  
  Net income (loss) attributable to Limoneira Company                            $         9,400                $             (236)      $           (3,441)  

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Due to significant depreciable assets associated with the nature of our operations and interest costs associated with our capital structure, management believes that earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) and adjusted EBITDA, which excludes stock-based compensation, named executive officer cash severance, pension settlement cost, (gain) loss on disposal of assets, net, cash bonus related to sale of assets and gain on legal settlement are important 
measures to evaluate our results of operations between periods on a more comparable basis. Adjusted EBITDA in fiscal year 2021 did not exclude stock-based compensation which has now been excluded as management believes this is a better representation of cash generated by operations and is consistent with peer company reporting. Adjusted EBITDA for fiscal year 2021 has been restated to conform to the current presentation. Such measurements are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally 
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and should not be construed as an alternative to reported results determined in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP information provided is unique to us and may not be consistent with methodologies used by other companies.

EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are summarized and reconciled to net income (loss) attributable to Limoneira Company which management considers to be the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, as follows (in thousands):

                                                           Years Ended October 31,                                                               
                                                           2023                                       2022                   2021                
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net income (loss) attributable to Limoneira Company      $                               9,400      $           (236)      $          (3,441)  
  Interest income                                          (364)                                      (53)                   (379)               
  Interest expense, net of patronage dividends             494                                                    2,291                   1,501  
  Income tax provision (benefit)                                                           4,247      823                    (266)               
  Depreciation and amortization                                                            8,576                  9,798                   9,812  
  EBITDA                                                   $                              22,353      $          12,623      $            7,227  
  Stock-based compensation                                                                 3,841                  2,732                   2,582  
  Named executive officer cash severance                   —                                          432                    —                   
  Pension settlement cost                                                                  2,700      607                    —                   
  (Gain) loss on disposal of assets, net                                                (28,849)                (4,500)      109                 
  Cash bonus related to sale of assets                                                     2,000      —                      —                   
  Gain on legal settlement                                                               (2,269)      —                      —                   
  Adjusted EBITDA                                          $                               (224)      $          11,894      $            9,918  

Fiscal Year 2023 Compared to Fiscal Year 2022

Revenues

Total net revenues for fiscal year 2023 were $179.9 million compared to $184.6 million for fiscal year 2022. The 3% decrease of $4.7 million was primarily due to decreased avocados and oranges agribusiness revenues, partially offset by farm management agribusiness revenues, as detailed below (in thousands):

                                        Years Ended October 31,                                                                           
                                        2023                                      2022                   Change                           
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Lemons                                $                            142,110      $         143,061      $              (951)       (1)%  
  Avocados                                                             7,046                 17,331                  (10,285)      (59)%  
  Oranges                                                              5,779                  9,911                   (4,132)      (42)%  
  Specialty citrus and other crops                                     9,515                  8,978      537                          6%  
  Farm management                                                      9,931      —                                     9,931         —%  
  Agribusiness revenues                 $                            174,381      $         179,281      $            (4,900)       (3)%  

• Lemons: The decrease in fiscal year 2023, compared to fiscal year 2022, was primarily due to decreased fresh lemon sales, partially offset by increased brokered lemons and other lemon sales. During fiscal years 2023 and 2022, fresh lemon sales were $86.8 million and $92.9 million, in aggregate, on 4.8 million and 4.9 million cartons of lemons sold at average per carton prices of $18.24 and $18.77, respectively. Lemon revenues in fiscal years 2023 and 2022 included brokered lemons and other 
lemon sales of $30.3 million and $24.5 million, shipping and handling of $20.6 million and $22.2 million, and lemon by-product sales of $3.0 million and $3.5 million, respectively. In addition, lemon revenues included settlement proceeds of $1.4 million allocated to lemons in fiscal year 2023.

• Avocados: The decrease in fiscal year 2023, compared to fiscal year 2022 was primarily due to decreased volume and lower prices of avocados sold. During fiscal years 2023 and 2022, 3.8 million and 8.2 million pounds of avocados were sold at an average per pound price of $1.06 and $2.08, respectively. The California avocado crop typically experiences alternating years of high and low production due to plant physiology. In addition, avocado revenues included settlement proceeds of $2.4 million 
allocated to avocados and crop insurance proceeds of $0.7 million in fiscal year 2023.

• Oranges: The decrease in fiscal year 2023, compared to fiscal year 2022, was primarily due to decreased volume, mainly related to the Northern Properties sale. During fiscal years 2023 and 2022, 292,000 and 676,000 cartons of oranges were sold at an average per carton price of $19.79 and $14.66, respectively.

• Specialty citrus and other crops: The increase in fiscal year 2023, compared to fiscal year 2022, was primarily due to higher prices, partially offset by decreased volume of specialty citrus sold. During fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we sold 240,000 and 434,000 40-pound carton equivalents of specialty citrus at an average per carton price of $27.18 and $13.22, respectively. Additionally, during fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we sold $2.9 million and $3.2 million of wine grapes, respectively.

• Farm management: Farm management revenues in fiscal year 2023 were $9.9 million, primarily due to the Northern Properties farming, management and operations services. There were no farm management revenues in fiscal year 2022.

Other operations revenue in fiscal years 2023 and 2022 was $5.5 million and $5.3 million, respectively. The increase in fiscal year 2023, compared to fiscal year 2022, was primarily due to increased leased land revenue.

Costs and Expenses

Our total costs and expenses in fiscal year 2023 were $169.1 million, compared to $182.4 million in the same period of fiscal year 2022. The 7% decrease of $13.3 million was primarily due to increased gain on disposal of assets, mainly related to the Northern Properties sale, partially offset by the loss on disposal of Cadiz Ranch assets and increased agribusiness costs and expenses. Agribusiness costs and expenses are detailed below (in thousands):

                                             Years Ended October 31,                                                                          
                                             2023                                      2022                   Change                          
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Packing costs                              $                             48,581      $          45,448      $             3,133         7%  
  Harvest costs                                                            18,613                 20,767                  (2,154)      (10)%  
  Growing costs                                                            33,379                 26,277                    7,102        27%  
  Third-party grower and supplier costs                                    61,273                 59,555                    1,718         3%  
  Depreciation and amortization                                             7,323                  8,604                  (1,281)      (15)%  
  Agribusiness costs and expenses            $                            169,169      $         160,651      $             8,518         5%  

• Packing costs: Packing costs consist primarily of the costs to pack lemons for sale such as labor and benefits, cardboard cartons, fruit treatments, packing and shipping supplies and facility operating costs. In fiscal years 2023 and 2022, lemon packing costs were $45.7 million and $43.0 million, respectively. The increase in fiscal year 2023 was primarily due to higher average per carton costs, partially offset by decreased volume of fresh lemons packed and sold compared to fiscal year 2022. 
During fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we packed and sold 4.8 million and 4.9 million cartons of lemons at average per carton costs of $9.61 and $8.69, respectively. The increase in average per carton costs in fiscal year 2023, compared to fiscal year 2022, was primarily due to increased labor and benefit costs. Additionally, in fiscal years 2023 and 2022, packing costs included $2.9 million and $2.4 million of shipping costs, respectively.

• Harvest costs: The decrease in harvest costs in fiscal year 2023, compared to fiscal year 2022, was primarily due to decreased volume of avocados, oranges and specialty citrus harvested, partially offset by increased volume of lemons harvested.

• Growing costs: Growing costs, also referred to as cultural costs, consist of orchard maintenance costs such as cultivation, fertilization and soil amendments, pest control, pruning and irrigation. The increase in fiscal year 2023, compared to fiscal year 2022, was primarily due to the Northern Properties farm management costs which were expensed in fiscal year 2023 and were capitalized as cultural costs in fiscal year 2022, as well as farm management decisions based on weather, harvest timing 
and crop conditions.

• Third-party grower and supplier costs: We sell fruit that we grow and fruit that we procure from other growers and suppliers. The cost of procuring fruit from other growers and suppliers as well as the cost of brokered fruit is referred to as third-party grower and supplier costs. The increase in fiscal year 2023, compared to fiscal year 2022, was primarily due to increased costs incurred for brokered fruit, partially offset by decreased costs for third-party growers and suppliers' fruit. In 
fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we incurred costs for purchased, packed fruit for resale of $29.4 million and $26.2 million, respectively. In fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we incurred costs for third-party growers and suppliers' fruit of $31.9 million and $33.4 million, respectively. During fiscal years 2023 and 2022 of the 4.8 million and 4.9 million cartons of lemons packed and sold, 2.6 million (54%) and 2.6 million (52%), were procured from third-party growers and suppliers at average per carton 
prices of $12.44 and $13.03, respectively.

• Depreciation and amortization: Depreciation and amortization expense for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 was $7.3 million and $8.6 million, respectively. The decrease in fiscal year 2023, compared to fiscal year 2022, was primarily due to the Northern Properties sale in fiscal year 2023.

Other operations expenses for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 were $4.6 million and $4.4 million, respectively.

Gain on disposal of assets, net in fiscal years 2023 and 2022 were $28.8 million and $4.5 million, respectively. The change is primarily due to the gain on the sale of the Northern Properties, partially offset by the loss on disposal of Cadiz Ranch assets in fiscal year 2023.

Gain on legal settlement was $2.3 million in fiscal year 2023 due to the Settlement Agreement related to the Thomas fire.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2023 were $26.5 million compared to $21.8 million for fiscal year 2022. The $4.7 million increase was primarily due to:

•$2.5 million net increase in salaries, benefits and incentive compensation;

•$0.7 million increase in tax, legal and consulting fees primarily related to disposals of Northern Properties and Cadiz;

•$0.2 million increase in selling expenses; and

•$1.3 million net increase in other selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily associated with our strategic initiatives.

Other Income (Expense)

Total other income (expense) was $2.6 million and $(1.9) million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The $4.4 million increase in total other income was primarily due to:

•$4.0 million increase of equity earnings in investments primarily due to LLCB;

•$1.8 million decrease of interest expense due to decreased long-term debt; and

•$1.7 million increase of other expense primarily due to pension settlement cost.

Income Taxes

We recorded for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 income tax provision of $4.2 million and $0.8 million on pre-tax income of $13.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively. The tax provision recorded for fiscal year 2023 differs from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21.0% due primarily to foreign jurisdictions which are taxed at different rates, state taxes, tax impact of stock-based compensation, nondeductible tax items and valuation allowances on certain deferred tax assets of foreign 
subsidiaries. Our effective tax rate for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 was 31.8% and 234.8%, respectively.

Net Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest

Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest represents 10% and 49% of the net loss of PDA and Trapani Fresh, respectively, for fiscal years 2023 and 2022.

Segment Results of Operations

We operate in four reportable operating segments: fresh lemons, lemon packing, avocados and other agribusiness. Our reportable operating segments are strategic business units with different products and services, distribution processes and customer bases. We evaluate the performance of our operating segments separately to monitor the different factors affecting financial results. Each segment is subject to review and evaluations related to current market conditions, market opportunities and 
available resources. See Note 21 - Segment Information for additional information regarding our operating segments.

Segment information for fiscal year 2023 (in thousands):

 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Revenues from external customers      121,537      20,573      7,046      25,225      174,381        5,520      179,901  
  Intersegment revenue                               31,081                                                                
  Total net revenues                    121,537      51,654      7,046      25,225      174,381        5,520      179,901  
  Costs and expenses (gain)             120,494      45,689      4,034      22,710      161,846      (1,304)      160,542  
  Depreciation and amortization                                                           7,323        1,253        8,576  
  Operating income                        1,043       5,965      3,012       2,515        5,212        5,571       10,783  

Segment information for fiscal year 2022 (in thousands):

 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Revenues from external customers      120,885      22,176      17,331      18,889      179,281         5,324      184,605  
  Intersegment revenue                               29,817                                                                  
  Total net revenues                    120,885      51,993      17,331      18,889      179,281         5,324      184,605  
  Costs and expenses                    115,119      43,017       5,524      18,204      152,047        20,559      172,606  
  Depreciation and amortization                                                            8,604         1,194        9,798  
  Operating income (loss)                 5,766       8,976      11,807         685       18,630      (16,429)        2,201  

Fiscal Year 2023 Segment Information Compared to Fiscal Year 2022 Segment Information

The following analysis should be read in conjunction with the previous section “Results of Operations.”

Fresh Lemons

Fresh lemons segment revenue is comprised of sales of fresh lemons, lemon by-products, brokered lemons and other lemon revenue. For fiscal years 2023 and 2022, our fresh lemons segment total net revenues were $121.5 million and $120.9 million, respectively. The 1% increase of $0.6 million was primarily due to:

• Fresh lemon sales decrease of $6.2 million;

• Brokered lemons and other lemon sales increase of $5.8 million;

•Lemon by-products decrease of $0.4 million; and

• Legal settlement proceeds in fiscal year 2023 allocated to fresh lemons of $1.4 million.

Costs and expenses associated with our fresh lemons segment include growing costs, harvest costs, cost of lemons we procure from third-party growers and suppliers, transportation costs and packing service charges incurred from the lemon packing segment to pack lemons for sale. For fiscal years 2023 and 2022, our fresh lemons segment costs and expenses were $120.5 million and $115.1 million, respectively. The 5% increase of $5.4 million was primarily due to:

• Harvest costs increase of $0.3 million;

• Growing costs increase of $3.2 million;

• Third-party grower and supplier costs increase of $0.1 million;

•Transportation costs increase of $0.5 million; and

• Intersegment costs and expenses increase of $1.3 million.

Lemon Packing

Lemon packing segment revenue is comprised of packing revenue, intersegment packing revenue and shipping and handling revenue. For fiscal years 2023 and 2022, our lemon packing segment total net revenues were $51.7 million and $52.0 million, respectively, a 1% decrease of $0.3 million.

Costs and expenses associated with our lemon packing segment consist of the costs to pack lemons for sale such as labor and benefits, cardboard cartons, fruit treatments, packing and shipping supplies and facility operating costs. For fiscal years 2023 and 2022, our lemon packing costs and expenses were $45.7 million and $43.0 million, respectively. The 6% increase of $2.7 million was primarily due to increased labor and benefit costs.

Lemon packing segment operating income per carton sold was $1.25 and $1.81 for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively.

The lemon packing segment included $31.1 million and $29.8 million of intersegment revenues for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively, that were charged to the fresh lemons segment to pack lemons for sale. Such intersegment revenues and expenses are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements.

Avocados

Our avocados segment revenues were $7.0 million and $17.3 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively, a 59% decrease of $10.3 million, due primarily to alternating years of high and low production due to plant physiology.

Costs and expenses associated with our avocados segment include growing and harvest costs. Our avocados segment costs and expenses were $4.0 million and $5.5 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The 27% decrease of $1.5 million primarily consisted of the following:

•Harvest costs decrease of $0.9 million; and

• Growing costs decrease of $0.6 million.

Other Agribusiness

Our other agribusiness segment total net revenues were $25.2 million and $18.9 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The 34% increase of $6.3 million was primarily due to:

• Orange revenues decrease of $4.1 million;

•Specialty citrus and other revenues increase of $0.5 million; and

• Farm management revenues in fiscal year 2023 were $9.9 million. There were no farm management revenues in fiscal year 2022.

Costs and expenses associated with our other agribusiness segment include growing costs, harvest costs and purchased fruit costs. Our other agribusiness costs and expenses were $22.7 million and $18.2 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The 25% increase of $4.5 million was primarily due to:

• Harvest costs decrease of $1.5 million;

•Growing costs increase of $4.4 million; and

• Purchased fruit costs increase of $1.6 million.

Total agribusiness depreciation and amortization expenses were $7.3 million and $8.6 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively.

Corporate and Other

Our corporate and other operations revenues were $5.5 million and $5.3 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively.

Costs and expenses (gain) in our corporate and other operations were $(1.3) million and $20.6 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively, and include selling, general and administrative costs and expenses, gain on disposal of assets, net and gain on legal settlement not allocated to the operating segments. Depreciation and amortization expenses for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 were $1.3 million and $1.2 million, respectively.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash and cash flows generated from our operations and use of our revolving credit facility. Our liquidity and capital position fluctuates during the year depending on seasonal production cycles, weather events and demand for our products. Typically, our first and last fiscal quarters coincide with the fall and winter months during which we are growing crops that are harvested and sold in the spring and summer, which are our second and third quarters. To meet 
working capital demand and investment requirements of our agribusiness and real estate development projects and to supplement operating cash flows, we utilize our revolving credit facility to fund agricultural inputs and farm management practices until sufficient returns from crops allow us to repay amounts borrowed. Raw materials needed to propagate the various crops grown by us consist primarily of fertilizer, herbicides, insecticides, fuel and water, all of which are readily available from 
local sources.

Material contractual obligations arising in the normal course of business consist primarily of purchase obligations, long-term fixed rate and variable rate debt and related interest payments and operating and finance leases. See Note 11 - Long-Term Debt and Note 13 - Leases for amounts outstanding as of October 31, 2023, related to debt and leases. Purchase obligations consist of contracts primarily related to packing supplies, the majority of which are due in the next three years.

We believe that the cash flows from operations and available borrowing capacity from our existing credit facilities will be sufficient to satisfy our capital expenditures, debt service, working capital needs and other contractual obligations for the next twelve months. We believe our revenue generating operations, distributions from equity investments and credit facilities will generate sufficient cash needed to operate beyond the next twelve months. In addition, we have the ability to control a
portion of our investing cash flows to the extent necessary based on our liquidity demands.

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities was $(15.9) million and $14.8 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The significant components of our cash flows (used in) provided by operating activities were as follows:

• Net income (loss) was $9.1 million and $(0.5) million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively. The components of net income for fiscal year 2023, compared to net loss for fiscal year 2022, consists of an increase in operating income of $8.6 million and an increase in total other income of $4.4 million, offset by an increase in income tax provision of $3.4 million.

•Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities:

◦ Adjustments (used) provided $(22.5) million and $10.0 million for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively, primarily related to depreciation and amortization, gain on disposal of assets, stock compensation expense, equity in earnings of investments, net and deferred income taxes.

◦ Changes in operating assets and liabilities (used in) provided by $(2.5) million and $5.3 million of operating cash for fiscal years 2023 and 2022, respectively, primarily related to cultural costs, prepaid expenses/other current assets, accounts payable/growers and suppliers payable, accrued liabilities/payables to related parties, and other long-term liabilities.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

▪ The $90.6 million of net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal year 2023 was comprised primarily of net proceeds from sales of assets of $98.5 million, net proceeds from the sale of real estate development assets of $2.6 million, partially offset by capital expenditures of $10.3 million, primarily related to orchard and vineyard development.

▪ The $19.4 million of net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal year 2022 was comprised primarily of net proceeds from sale of assets of $19.3 million, net proceeds from the sale of real estate development assets of $7.9 million, collection on notes receivable of $2.8 million, partially offset by capital expenditures of $10.1 million related to orchard and vineyard development.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

• The $71.9 million of net cash used in financing activities during fiscal year 2023 was comprised primarily of net repayments of long-term debt $65.0 million and common and preferred stock dividends of $5.9 million.

• The $33.5 million of net cash used in financing activities during fiscal year 2022 was comprised primarily of net repayments of long-term debt of $26.8 million, common and preferred stock dividends of $5.8 million and the exchange of common stock of $1.5 million, partially offset by proceeds from equipment financings of $1.0 million.

Transactions Affecting Liquidity and Capital Resources

Credit Facilities and Long-Term Debt

We finance our working capital and other liquidity requirements primarily through cash from operations and from our AgWest Farm Credit Facility, which includes the Master Loan Agreement (the “MLA”) and Supplements. In addition, we have Banco de Chile term loans and COVID-19 loans. Additional information regarding these loans can be found in Note 11- Long-Term Debt.

In June 2021, we entered into the MLA with the Lender, together with the Supplements and a Fixed Interest Rate Agreement, which extends the principal repayment to July 1, 2026. The MLA governs the terms of the Supplements.

The Supplements provide aggregate borrowing capacity of $115.0 million, comprised of $75.0 million under the Revolving Credit Supplement and $40.0 million under the Non-Revolving Credit Supplement. As of October 31, 2023, our outstanding borrowings under the AgWest Farm Credit Facility were $40.0 million and we had $75.0 million of availability.

On January 31, 2023, the Company sold the Northern Properties which resulted in total net proceeds of $98.4 million. The proceeds were used to pay down all of the Company's domestic debt except the Non-Revolving Credit Supplement.

The MLA subjects us to affirmative and restrictive covenants including, among other customary covenants, financial reporting requirements, requirements to maintain and repair any collateral, restrictions on the sale of assets, restrictions on the use of proceeds, prohibitions on the incurrence of additional debt and restrictions on the purchase or sale of major assets of our business. We are also subject to a financial covenant that requires us to maintain compliance with a specific debt service
coverage ratio on an annual basis. In September 2023, the Lender modified the covenant to defer measurement as of October 31, 2023 and resume a debt service coverage ratio of 1.25:1.0 measured as of October 31, 2024.

In fiscal years 2023 and 2022 we received annual patronage dividends of $1.4 million and $1.6 million, respectively, from the Lender.

Dividends

The holders of the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series B Stock”) and the Series B-2 Preferred Stock (the “Series B-2 Preferred Stock”) are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends. Such preferred dividends paid totaled $0.5 million in each of the fiscal years 2023 and 2022.

Cash dividends declared in each of the fiscal years 2023 and 2022 totaled $0.30 per common share and such dividends paid totaled $5.4 million in fiscal year 2023 and $5.3 million in fiscal year 2022.

Income Taxes

In fiscal years2023 and2022, we paid income taxes of$7.2 million and$0.1 million, respectively.

Real Estate Development Activities and Related Capital Resources

As noted under “Transactions Affecting Liquidity and Capital Resources,” we have the ability to control a portion of our investing cash flows to the extent necessary based upon our liquidity demands. In order for our real estate development operations to reach their maximum potential benefit to us, however, we will need to be successful over time in identifying other third-party sources of capital to collaborate with us to move those development projects forward. While we are frequently in 
discussions with potential external sources of capital in respect to all of our development projects, current market conditions for California real estate projects make it difficult to predict the timing and amounts of future capital that will be required to complete the development of our projects.

In November 2015, we entered into a joint venture with Lewis for the residential development of our East Area I real estate development project. To consummate the transaction, we formed LLCB as the development entity, contributed our East Area I property to the joint venture and sold a 50% interest in the joint venture to Lewis for $20.0 million. The first phase of the project broke ground to commence mass grading in November 2017. Approved project plans currently include approximately 1,500 
residential units and site improvements. A total of 707 residential units have closed from the project's inception to October 31, 2023.

In October 2022, we entered into a joint venture with Lewis for the development of our 17-acre East Area I Retained Property. We formed LLCB II as the development entity, contributed our Retained Property to the joint venture and sold a 50% interest to Lewis for approximately $8.0 million. We recorded a gain on the transaction of approximately $4.7 million, of which $0.5 million was deferred.

The joint venture partners will share in the capital contributions to fund project costs until loan proceeds and/or revenues are sufficient to fund the projects. Since inception each partner has made funding contributions of $21.4 million to LLCB and $0.5 million to LLCB II. We expect to receive approximately $123.0 million from LLCB, LLCB II and East Area II over the next seven years of the projects.

Trend Information

The commodity pricing for our fresh produce, and therefore our revenues and margins, is significantly impacted by consumer demand. The worldwide fresh produce industry has historically enjoyed consistent underlying demand and favorable growth dynamics. In recent years, the market for fresh produce has increased faster than the rate of population growth, supported by ongoing trends including greater consumer demand for healthy, fresh and convenient foods, increased retailer square footage devoted
to fresh produce, and greater emphasis on fresh produce as a differentiating factor in attracting customers. Health-conscious consumers are driving much of the growth in demand for fresh produce. Over the past several decades, the benefits of natural, preservative-free and organic foods have become an increasingly significant element of the public dialogue on health and nutrition. As a result, consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables has markedly increased. Conversely, a decrease in demand, as 
was seen during the COVID-19 pandemic as a result of restaurant closures, has the impact of reducing our pricing and therefore our revenues and margins.

Critical Accounting Estimates

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to develop critical accounting policies and make certain estimates, assumptions and judgments that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, available relevant data and other information that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and we continue to review and evaluate these estimates. Actual 
results may materially differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions as new or additional information become available in future periods. For further information on significant accounting policies, see discussion in Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.

Impairment of Real Estate Development Projects - We evaluate our real estate development projects, held either by us or as included specifically within our investments in LLCB and LLCB II, for impairment on an ongoing basis. Our evaluation for impairment involves an initial assessment of each real estate development project to determine whether events or changes in circumstances exist that may indicate that the carrying amounts of, or investment in, real estate development projects are no longer
recoverable. Possible indications of impairment may include events or changes in circumstances affecting the entitlement process, zoning, government regulation, geographical demand for new housing or commercial property, and market conditions related to residential or commercial land lots. When events or changes in circumstances exist, we further evaluate the real estate development projects for impairment by a) comparing undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated over the life of 
the real estate development projects to the respective carrying amount for our real estate development or b) determining if our equity in investment has incurred an other-than-temporary decline.

We make significant judgments in evaluating each real estate development project, as held by us or within our investments in LLCB and LLCB II, for possible indications of impairment. These judgments may relate to the identification of appropriate and comparable market prices, the consideration of changes to legal factors or the business climate, the likelihood of successfully completing the entitlement process, changes in zoning or government regulation, and demand for new housing. Changes in 
these judgments could have a significant impact on real estate development or equity in investments. For fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, no impairment loss has been recognized on any real estate development and no other-than-temporary-impairment has been recognized on our equity in LLCB or LLCB II.

The impairment calculation for real estate developments held by us compares the carrying value of the asset to the asset’s estimated future cash flows (undiscounted). If the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, we calculate an impairment loss. The impairment loss calculation compares the carrying value of the asset to the asset’s estimated fair value, which may be based on estimated future cash flows (discounted). We recognize an impairment loss equal to the
amount by which the asset’s carrying value exceeds the asset’s estimated fair value. If we recognize an impairment loss, the adjusted carrying amount of the asset will be its new cost basis. Restoration of a previously recognized impairment loss is prohibited. If actual results are not consistent with our assumptions and judgments used in estimating future cash flows and asset fair values, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material to our results of operations.

Whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of our equity investments in LLCB and LLCB II might not be recoverable, then we determine whether an impairment is other-than-temporary. If we conclude the impairment is other-than-temporary, we determine the estimated fair value of the investment by performing a discounted cash flow or market approach analysis and recognize an other-than-temporary impairment to reduce the investment to its estimated fair value.

We believe that the accounting estimate related to impairment of real estate development projects held by us, or other-than-temporary impairment of our equity investments in LLCB and LLCB II, is a critical accounting estimate because it is very susceptible to change from period to period; it requires management to make assumptions about future prices, production, and costs, and the potential impact of a loss from impairment could be material to our earnings. Management’s assumptions regarding 
future cash flows from real estate development projects or return on equity of our investments in LLCB and LLCB II have fluctuated in the past due to changes in prices, production and costs and are expected to continue to do so in the future as market conditions change.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for information concerning recent accounting pronouncements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

Borrowings under the AgWest Farm Credit Facility are subject to variable interest rates. These variable interest rates subject us to the risk of increased interest costs associated with any upward movements in interest rates. For the AgWest Farm Credit Facility, our borrowing interest rate is an internally calculated rate based on an AgWest Farm Credit internal method that follows the changing market interest rates and the cost to fund variable-rate loans. Rate changes are expected to be 
generally the same as the Federal Open Market Committee (the “FOMC”) recommended changes, however the changes may be marginally different than the FOMC's recommendation. As of October 31, 2023, our total debt outstanding under the AgWest Farm Credit Facility was $40.0 million.

Based on our level of borrowings as of October 31, 2023, a 100 basis points increase in interest rates would not materially increase our interest expense for fiscal year 2024 or the three subsequent fiscal years. Additionally, a 100 basis points increase in the interest rate would not materially decrease our net income for fiscal year 2024 or the three subsequent fiscal years. We have strategies in place to manage our exposure to interest rate risk, including the potential early pay down of 
outstanding debt under the AgWest Farm Credit Facility. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional information.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Limoneira Company

Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm                                                                       44  
  Consolidated Financial Statements of Limoneira Company                                                                            
  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 31, 2023 and 2022                                                                   46  
  Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021                                     47  
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021                    48  
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Temporary Equity for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021      49  
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021                                     50  
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                                                    52  

All schedules are omitted for the reason that they are not applicable or the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Limoneira Company

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Limoneira Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of October 31, 2023 and 2022, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), stockholders' equity and temporary equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2023, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of the other 
auditors, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of October 31, 2023 and 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2023, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

We did not audit the financial statements of Limoneira Lewis Community Builders, LLC (“LLCB”), the Company's investment in which is accounted for by use of the equity method. The accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Company include, before the basis difference and related amortization discussed in Note 7, its equity in investment in LLCB of $58,282,000 and $52,431,000 as of October 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and its equity earnings in LLCB of $5,851,000, $1,015,000, and 
$4,508,000 for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. The financial statements of LLCB were audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for the Company’s equity in investment and equity earnings in LLCB, is based solely on the report of the other auditors.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2023, based on the criteria established inInternal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated December 21, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial 
reporting based on our audit.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included 
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits and the report of the other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole,
and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.

Real estate development assets held by the Company and equity in investment in LLCB - Impairment Indicators - Refer to Notes 2, 6 and 7 to the financial statements

Critical Audit Matter Description

The Company’s evaluation of real estate development projects, held either by the Company or as included specifically within its investment in LLCB, for impairment involves an initial assessment of each real estate development project to determine whether events or changes in circumstances exist that may indicate that the carrying amounts of, or investment in, real estate development projects are no longer recoverable. Possible indications of impairment may include events or changes in 
circumstances affecting the entitlement process, zoning, government regulation, geographical demand for new housing or commercial property, and market conditions related to residential or commercial land lots. When events or changes in circumstances exist, the Company further evaluates the real estate development projects for impairment by a) comparing undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated over the life of the real estate development projects to the respective carrying amount 
for its real estate development or b) determining if its equity in investment has incurred an other-than-temporary decline.

The Company makes significant judgments in evaluating each real estate development project as held by them or within its investment in LLCB, for possible indications of impairment. These judgments may relate to the identification of appropriate and comparable market prices, the consideration of changes to legal factors or the business climate, the likelihood of successfully completing the entitlement process, changes in zoning or government regulation, and demand for new housing. Changes in 
these judgments could have a significant impact on real estate development or equity in investments. Real estate development assets held by the Company were $9,987,000, and equity in investments was $78,816,000 as of October 31, 2023 of which $66,288,000 was allocated to LLCB. For the year ended October 31, 2023, no impairment loss has been recognized on any real estate development and no other-than-temporary-impairment has been recognized on the Company’s equity in LLCB.

We identified the significant judgments made by management in evaluating real estate development assets held by the Company and equity in investment in LLCB, for possible indicators of impairment, as a critical audit matter. This required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort, including the need to involve our fair value specialists, when performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of management’s estimates and assumptions when determining whether 
events or changes in circumstances have occurred indicating that the carrying amount of, or investment in, real estate development assets held by the Company and equity in investment in LLCB may not be recoverable and whether management appropriately identified impairment indicators.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to the evaluation of real estate development assets held by the Company and equity in investment in LLCB for possible indications of impairment included the following, among others:

• We tested the effectiveness of the controls over management’s identification of possible circumstances that may indicate that real estate development assets held by the Company or equity in investment in LLCB is no longer recoverable, including controls over management’s evaluation of the entitlement process, litigation, changes in zoning, government regulation, geographical demand and market conditions.

•We evaluated management’s impairment analysis by:

- Searching for adverse asset-specific and/or market conditions by reviewing publicly available information on land values in the surrounding regions of the development, periodicals and news information relating to the Southern California real estate market

- Obtaining information from legal counsel and performing inquiries with management in order to evaluate any changes in the status of litigation matters affecting the real estate development assets and the potential impact on the ability to recover the accumulated costs, including any relevant government regulations and/or other matters impacting the entitlement process

- Obtaining comparable land sales in the area and comparing such data to information used by management with the assistance of our fair value specialists

- Developing an independent expectation of impairment indicators and comparing such expectation to management’s analysis

  /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP  

Los Angeles, California

December 21, 2023

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2019.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in thousands, except share and per share data)

                                                                                                                                                                                                            October 31,                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                            2023                          2022                   
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  Current assets:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
  Cash                                                                                                                                                                                                      $                  3,631      $                 857  
  Accounts receivable, net                                                                                                                                                                                                    14,458                     15,651  
  Cultural costs                                                                                                                                                                                                               2,334                      8,643  
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                                                                                                                                                                    5,588                      8,496  
  Receivables/other from related parties                                                                                                                                                                                       4,214                      3,888  
  Total current assets                                                                                                                                                                                                        30,225                     37,535  
  Property, plant and equipment, net                                                                                                                                                                                         160,631                    222,628  
  Real estate development                                                                                                                                                                                                      9,987                      9,706  
  Equity in investments                                                                                                                                                                                                       78,816                     72,855  
  Goodwill                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,512                      1,506  
  Intangible assets, net                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,657                      7,317  
  Other assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                13,382                     16,971  
  Total assets                                                                                                                                                                                              $                301,210      $             368,518  
  Liabilities, Convertible Preferred Stock and Stockholders' Equity                                                                                                                                                                                              
  Current liabilities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  Accounts payable                                                                                                                                                                                          $                  9,892      $              10,663  
  Growers and suppliers payable                                                                                                                                                                                                9,629                     10,740  
  Accrued liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                          8,651                     11,279  
  Payables to related parties                                                                                                                                                                                                  4,805                      4,860  
  Current portion of long-term debt                                                                                                                                                                         381                                           1,732  
  Total current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                   33,358                     39,274  
  Long-term liabilities:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  Long-term debt, less current portion                                                                                                                                                                                        40,628                    104,076  
  Deferred income taxes                                                                                                                                                                                                       22,172                     23,497  
  Other long-term liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                  4,555                      9,807  
  Total liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                          100,713                    176,654  
  Commitments and contingencies                                                                                                                                                                             —                             —                      
  Series B Convertible Preferred Stock – $ 100.00 par value ( 50,000 shares authorized: 14,790 shares issued and outstanding at October 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022) ( 8.75% coupon rate)                                    1,479                      1,479  
  Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock – $ 100.00 par value ( 10,000 shares authorized: 9,300 shares issued and outstanding at October 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022) ( 4% dividend rate on liqui...                         9,331                      9,331  
  Stockholders' equity:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock – $ 0.01 par value ( 20,000 shares authorized: zero issued or outstanding at October 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022)                                         —                             —                      
  Common Stock – $ 0.01 par value ( 39,000,000 shares authorized: 18,192,009 and 17,935,292 shares issued and 17,941,032 and 17,684,315 shares outstanding at October 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022...      179                           177                    
  Additional paid-in capital                                                                                                                                                                                                 168,441                    165,169  
  Retained earnings                                                                                                                                                                                                           19,017                     15,500  
  Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                                                                                                                                      ( 5,666)                      ( 7,908)               
  Treasury stock, at cost, 250,977 shares at October 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022                                                                                                                          ( 3,493)                      ( 3,493)               
  Noncontrolling interest                                                                                                                                                                                                     11,209                     11,609  
  Total stockholders' equity                                                                                                                                                                                                 189,687                    181,054  
  Total liabilities, convertible preferred stock and stockholders' equity                                                                                                                                   $                301,210      $             368,518  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(in thousands, except per share data)

                                                           Years Ended October 31,                                                                        
                                                           2023                                            2022                       2021                
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net revenues:                                                                                                                                           
  Agribusiness                                             $                              174,381             $      179,281             $       161,381  
  Other operations                                                                          5,520                      5,324                       4,646  
  Total net revenues                                                                      179,901                    184,605                     166,027  
  Costs and expenses:                                                                                                                                     
  Agribusiness                                                                            169,169                    160,651                     148,492  
  Other operations                                                                          4,612                      4,438                       4,332  
  (Gain) loss on disposal of assets, net                                                ( 28,849)      ( 4,500)                        109                
  Gain on legal settlement                                 ( 2,269)                                           —                          —                
  Selling, general and administrative                                                      26,455                     21,815                      19,427  
  Total costs and expenses                                                                169,118                    182,404                     172,360  
  Operating income (loss)                                                                  10,783                      2,201      ( 6,333)                
  Other income (expense):                                                                                                                                 
  Interest income                                          364                                               53                        379                
  Interest expense, net of patronage dividends             ( 494)                                      ( 2,291)                   ( 1,501)                
  Equity in earnings of investments, net                                                    5,322                      1,341                       3,203  
  Other (expense) income, net                              ( 2,611)                                      ( 955)                         89                
  Total other income (expense)                                                              2,581      ( 1,852)                                    2,170  
  Income (loss) before income tax (provision) benefit                                      13,364           349                   ( 4,163)                
  Income tax (provision) benefit                           ( 4,247)                                      ( 823)                        266                
  Net income (loss)                                                                         9,117        ( 474)                   ( 3,897)                
  Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest         283                                              238                        456                
  Net income (loss) attributable to Limoneira Company                                       9,400        ( 236)                   ( 3,441)                
  Preferred dividends                                      ( 501)                                        ( 501)                     ( 501)                
  Net income (loss) applicable to common stock             $                                8,899             $       ( 737)             $      ( 3,942)  
  Basic net income (loss) per common share                 $                                 0.50             $      ( 0.04)             $       ( 0.23)  
  Diluted net income (loss) per common share               $                                 0.50             $      ( 0.04)             $       ( 0.23)  
  Weighted-average common shares outstanding-basic                                         17,603                     17,513                      17,555  
  Weighted-average common shares outstanding-diluted                                       17,603                     17,513                      17,555  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

(in thousands)

                                                                                      Years Ended October 31,                                                                      
                                                                                      2023                                         2022                    2021                    
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net income (loss)                                                                   $                             9,117             $        ( 474)      $             ( 3,897)  
  Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax:                                                                                                                                   
  Foreign currency translation adjustments                                            518                                      ( 2,430)                    ( 685)                  
  Minimum pension liability adjustments, net of tax of $( 135), $( 71) and $ 940      ( 220)                                     ( 183)                                     2,500  
  Pension settlement cost, net of tax of $ 756, $ 169 and $ 0                                                       1,944           438                    —                       
  Total other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax                                                               2,242      ( 2,175)                                     1,815  
  Comprehensive income (loss)                                                                                      11,359      ( 2,649)                    ( 2,082)                
  Comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interest                          283                                           356                    445                     
  Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Limoneira Company                       $                            11,642             $      ( 2,293)      $             ( 1,637)  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND TEMPORARY EQUITY

(in thousands, except share data)

                                                                                        Retained      Non-controlling         Total               
                                                               Amount                   Earnings      Interest               Equity               
  Balance at October 31, 2020                  17,606,730      $           162,084      $             $                           $      195,760  
  Dividends - common ($ 0.30 per share)                        —                        ( 5,303)      —                    ( 5,303)               
  Dividends - Series B ($ 8.75 per share)                      —                        ( 129)        —                      ( 129)               
  Dividends - Series B-2 ($ 40 per share)                      —                        ( 372)        —                      ( 372)               
  Stock compensation                              125,663      1             2,581      —             —                                    2,582  
  Exchange of common stock                      ( 46,993)      ( 1)                     —             —                      ( 701)               
  Noncontrolling interest adjustment                           —                        —             ( 1,331)             ( 1,331)               
  Net loss                                                     —                        ( 3,441)      ( 456)               ( 3,897)               
  Other comprehensive income, net of tax                       —                        —             11                                   1,826  
  Balance at October 31, 2021                  17,685,400      179         163,965                                                       188,435  
  Dividends - common ($ 0.30 per share)                        —                        ( 5,315)      —                    ( 5,315)               
  Dividends - Series B ($ 8.75 per share)                      —                        ( 129)        —                      ( 129)               
  Dividends - Series B-2 ($ 40 per share)                      —                        ( 372)        —                      ( 372)               
  Stock compensation                              104,231      1             2,731      —             —                                    2,732  
  Exchange of common stock                     ( 105,316)      ( 3)                     —             —                    ( 1,530)               
  Net loss                                                     —                        ( 236)        ( 238)                 ( 474)               
  Other comprehensive loss, net of tax                         —                        —             ( 118)               ( 2,293)               
  Balance at October 31, 2022                  17,684,315      177         165,169                                                       181,054  
  Dividends - common ($ 0.30 per share)                        —                        ( 5,382)      —                    ( 5,382)               
  Dividends - Series B ($ 8.75 per share)                      —                        ( 129)        —                      ( 129)               
  Dividends - Series B-2 ($ 40 per share)                      —                        ( 372)        —                      ( 372)               
  Stock compensation                              296,189      3             3,838      —             —                                    3,841  
  Exchange of common stock                      ( 39,472)      ( 1)                     —             —                      ( 567)               
  Noncontrolling interest adjustment                           —                        —             ( 117)                 ( 117)               
  Net income (loss)                                            —                                      ( 283)                               9,117  
  Other comprehensive income, net of tax                       —                        —             —                                    2,242  
  Balance at October 31, 2023                  17,941,032      $           168,441      $             $                           $      189,687  

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands)

                                                                                                          Years Ended October 31,                                                                             
                                                                                                                             2023                          2022                          2021                 
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Operating activities                                                                                                                                                                                        
  Net income (loss)                                                                                                             $           9,117             $          ( 474)             $       ( 3,897)  
  Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities:                                                                                                          
  Depreciation and amortization                                                                                                             8,576                         9,798                        9,812  
  (Gain) loss on disposal of assets, net                                                                                                ( 28,849)      ( 4,500)                           109                 
  Gain on legal settlement                                                                                                 ( 853)                             —                             —                 
  Stock compensation expense                                                                                                                3,841                         2,732                        2,582  
  Non-cash lease expense                                                                                                                    1,647           442                           520                 
  Equity in earnings of investments, net                                                                                 ( 5,322)                      ( 1,341)                      ( 3,203)                 
  Cash distributions from equity investments                                                                                  220                           483                           219                 
  Deferred income taxes                                                                                                  ( 1,947)                           548                        ( 189)                 
  Other, net                                                                                                                  168                                         1,831           335                 
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:                                                                                                                                                                
  Accounts receivable and receivables/other from related parties                                                              815                                         1,845      ( 5,076)                 
  Cultural costs                                                                                                                            2,455      ( 1,148)                        ( 639)                 
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                                                                                 1,487        ( 325)                      ( 1,021)                 
  Income taxes payable                                                                                                   ( 1,035)                             —                                        5,911  
  Other assets                                                                                                                              1,230        ( 134)                          ( 5)                 
  Accounts payable and growers and suppliers payable                                                                     ( 1,772)                                         1,853                        5,389  
  Accrued liabilities and payables to related parties                                                                    ( 2,921)                                         3,269        ( 730)                 
  Other long-term liabilities                                                                                            ( 2,727)                         ( 49)                        ( 512)                 
  Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities                                                                                   ( 15,870)                        14,830                        9,605  
  Investing activities                                                                                                                                                                                        
  Capital expenditures                                                                                                                  ( 10,305)                     ( 10,066)      ( 9,834)                 
  Net proceeds from sales of assets                                                                                                        98,545                        19,259           119                 
  Net proceeds from legal settlement                                                                                          853                             —                             —                 
  Net proceeds from sale of real estate development assets                                                                                  2,577                         7,917             —                 
  Cash distribution from Trapani Fresh                                                                                        122                           122                             —                 
  Collection on notes receivable                                                                                              155                                         2,755            25                 
  Equity investment contributions and capitalized interest                                                                 ( 847)                         ( 48)                             —                 
  Cash distribution from equity investment                                                                                      —                             —                           106                 
  Investments in mutual water companies and water rights                                                                   ( 523)                        ( 506)                        ( 653)                 
  Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities                                                                                      90,577                        19,433                    ( 10,237)  
  Financing activities                                                                                                                                                                                        
  Borrowings of long-term debt                                                                                                             57,940                       146,941                      102,196  
  Repayments of long-term debt                                                                                                         ( 122,921)                    ( 173,755)                    ( 95,140)  
  Proceeds from equipment financings                                                                                            —                                         1,020             —                 
  Principal paid on finance leases and equipment financings                                                                ( 491)                        ( 377)                         ( 18)                 
  Dividends paid – common                                                                                                ( 5,382)                      ( 5,315)                      ( 5,303)                 
  Dividends paid – preferred                                                                                               ( 501)                        ( 501)                        ( 501)                 
  Exchange of common stock                                                                                                 ( 567)                      ( 1,530)                        ( 700)                 
  Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities                                                                                   ( 71,922)                     ( 33,517)           534                 
  Effect of exchange rate changes on cash                                                                                   ( 11)                        ( 328)                            36                 
  Net increase (decrease) in cash                                                                                                           2,774           418                         ( 62)                 
  Cash at beginning of period                                                                                                 857                           439                           501                 
  Cash at end of period                                                                                                         $           3,631             $             857             $            439  

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)

(in thousands)

                                                                             Years Ended October 31,                                                          
                                                                             2023                                    2022                 2021                
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information                                                                                                           
  Cash paid during the period for interest (net of amounts capitalized)      $                            652        $         2,064      $         1,503     
  Cash paid (received) during the period for income taxes                    $                            7,229      $            83      $         ( 5,911)  
  Non-cash investing and financing activities:                                                                                                                
  Contribution of real estate development to equity investment               $                            —          $         7,975      $         —         
  Reduction of net payables to related parties                               $                            —          $         2,392      $         —         
  Reduction of note receivable                                               $                            —          $           388      $         —         
  Capital expenditures accrued but not paid at period-end                    $                            309        $           430      $         657       

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Business

Limoneira Company (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the “Company”) engages primarily in growing citrus and avocados, picking and hauling citrus, and packing, marketing and selling citrus. The Company is also engaged in residential rentals and other rental operations and real estate development activities.

The Company markets and sells citrus directly to food service, wholesale and retail customers throughout the United States, Canada, Asia, Australia and other international markets. The Company was a member of Sunkist Growers, Inc., an agricultural marketing cooperative, and sold a portion of its oranges, specialty citrus and other crops to Sunkist-licensed and other third-party packinghouses.

Through fiscal year 2021, the Company sold the majority of its avocado production to Calavo Growers, Inc. (“Calavo”), a packing and marketing company listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol CVGW. In February 2022, the Company terminated its Avocado Marketing Agreement and the associated Letter Agreement Regarding Fruit Commitment with Calavo to pursue opportunities with other packing and marketing companies.

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and the accounts of all the subsidiaries and investments in which the Company holds a controlling interest. The consolidated financial statements represent the consolidated balance sheets, statements of operations, statements of comprehensive income (loss), statements of stockholders’ equity and temporary equity and statements of cash flows of Limoneira Company and consolidated subsidiaries. Intercompany balances and 
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company considers the criteria established under the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) - Accounting Standards Code (“ASC”) 810, Consolidations, and the effect of variable interest entities, in its consolidation process.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Accounts Receivable

The Company grants credit in the course of its operations to cooperatives, companies and lessees of the Company’s facilities. The Company performs periodic credit evaluations of its customers’ financial condition and generally does not require collateral. The Company provides allowances on its receivables as required based on accounts receivable aging and other factors. 260,000 469,000

Concentrations and Geographic Information

The Company sells its avocados and oranges, and sold its specialty citrus, to third-party packinghouses. Prior to fiscal year 2022, the Company sold a majority of its avocado production to Calavo. Sales of avocados to Calavo were $ 6,594,000

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to revenues and accounts receivable are limited due to a large, diverse customer base. One individual customer represented 13 11

No individual supplier represented 10% of accounts payable as of October 31, 2023.

Lemons procured from third-party growers were 54 52 52 44

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

The Company maintains its cash in federally insured financial institutions. The account balances at these institutions periodically exceed Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance coverage and, as a result, there is a concentration of risk related to amounts on deposit in excess of FDIC insurance coverage.

Cultural Costs

Growing costs, also referred to as cultural costs, consist of orchard maintenance costs such as cultivation, fertilization and soil amendments, pest control, pruning and irrigation. Harvest costs are comprised of labor and equipment expenses incurred to harvest and deliver crops to the packinghouses.

Certain of the Company's crops have distinct growing periods and distinct harvest and selling periods, each of which lasts approximately four eight months

Due to climate, growing conditions and the types of crops grown, certain of the Company's other crops may be harvested and sold on a year-round basis. Accordingly, the Company does not capitalize cultural costs associated with these crops and therefore such costs, as well as harvest costs associated with these crops, are expensed to operations when incurred as components of agribusiness costs and expenses.

Most cultural costs, including amortization of capitalized cultural costs, and harvest costs are associated with and charged to specific crops. Certain other costs, such as property taxes, indirect labor, including farm supervision and management, and irrigation that benefit multiple crops are allocated to crops on a per acre basis.

Income Taxes

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are computed annually for differences between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities that will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. Such deferred income tax asset and liability computations are based on enacted tax laws and rates applicable to periods in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. A valuation allowance is established, when necessary, to reduce deferred income tax assets 
to the amount expected to be realized.

Tax benefits from an uncertain tax position are only recognized if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is stated at original cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method at rates based upon the estimated useful lives of the related assets as follows (in years):

  Land improvements                        10 – 30  
  Buildings and building improvements      10 – 50  
  Equipment                                5 – 20   
  Orchards and vineyards                   20 – 40  

Costs of planting and developing orchards are capitalized until the orchards become commercially productive. Planting costs consist primarily of the costs to purchase and plant nursery stock. Orchard development costs consist primarily of maintenance costs of orchards such as cultivation, pruning, irrigation, labor, pest control and fertilization, and interest costs during the development period. The Company ceases the capitalization of costs and commences depreciation when the orchards become 
commercially productive and orchard maintenance costs are accounted for as cultural costs as described above.

Capitalized Interest

Interest is capitalized on real estate development projects and significant construction in progress using the weighted average interest rate during the fiscal year. Capitalized interest is included in property, plant, and equipment, equity in investments and real estate development assets in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Real Estate Development Costs

The Company capitalizes the planning, entitlement, construction, development costs and interest associated with its various real estate projects. Costs that are not capitalized, which include property maintenance and repairs, general and administrative and marketing expenses, are expensed as incurred. A real estate development project is considered substantially complete upon the cessation of construction and development activities. Once a project is substantially completed, future costs are 
expensed as incurred. 281,000 637,000

Equity in Investments

Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures in which the Company has significant influence but less than a controlling interest, or is not the primary beneficiary if the joint venture is determined to be a Variable Interest Entity (“VIE”), are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and, accordingly, are adjusted for capital contributions, distributions, capitalized interest and the Company’s equity in net earnings or loss of the respective joint venture. The Company evaluates 
equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances exist that may indicate the investments are no longer recoverable or have incurred an other-than-temporary decline in value.

Long-Lived and Intangible Assets

Intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships, trade names and trademarks and a non-competition agreement. The Company’s definite-life intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated lives ranging from eight nine years

The Company evaluates long-lived assets, including its property and equipment, real estate development projects and definite-life intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. If the estimated fair value or undiscounted future cash flows from the use of an asset are less than the carrying value of that asset, a write-down is recorded to reduce the carrying value of the asset to its estimated fair
value. The Company evaluates its indefinite-life intangible assets annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment of the assets’ value may exist.

COVID-19 Pandemic

The decline in demand for the Company's products as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted the Company's sales and profitability since the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal year 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic may continue to impact the Company's sales and profitability in future periods. The duration of these trends and the magnitude of such impacts are uncertain and therefore cannot be estimated at this time, as they are influenced by a number of factors, many of which are 
outside management’s control.

Goodwill

Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or when an event or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill impairment is tested at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below the operating segment. The annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the 
carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. An entity still has the option to perform the qualitative assessment for a reporting unit to determine if the quantitative impairment test is necessary. Goodwill impairment testing involves significant judgment and estimates.

Fair Values of Financial Instruments

Accounts receivable, accounts payable, growers and suppliers payable and accrued liabilities reported on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets approximate their fair values due to the short-term nature of the instruments.

Based on the borrowing rates currently available to the Company for bank loans with similar terms and maturities, the fair value of long-term debt is approximately equal to its carrying amount as of October 31, 2023 and 2022.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Comprehensive income (loss) represents all changes in a company’s net assets, except changes resulting from transactions with stockholders. Other comprehensive income or loss includes foreign currency translation items and defined benefit pension items. Accumulated other comprehensive loss is reported as a component of the Company's stockholders' equity.

The following table summarizes the changes in other comprehensive income (loss) by component at October 31(in thousands):

                                                                                  2023                                                                 2022                                                       
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                                                                  Pre-tax Amount                 Tax Benefit (Expense)                 Pre-tax Amount      Tax Benefit (Expense)      Net Amount  
  Foreign currency translation adjustments                                        $                     518      $                            518      $                   $                          $           
  Minimum pension liability adjustments:                                                                                                                                                                          
  Other comprehensive (loss) income before reclassifications                      ( 355)                         135                                   ( 254)              71                         ( 183)      
  Amounts reclassified to earnings included in “Other (expense) income, net”                          2,700      ( 756)                     1,944      607                 ( 169)                     438         
  Other comprehensive income (loss)                                               $                   2,863      $                          2,242      $                   $                          $           

The following table summarizes the changes in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income by component (in thousands):

                                         Foreign Currency Translation Loss                    Defined Benefit Pension Plan                    Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income                
  Balance as of October 31, 2020         $                                      ( 3,069)      $                                 ( 4,479)      $                                                  ( 7,548)  
  Other comprehensive (loss) income      ( 685)                                                                                    2,500                                                            1,815  
  Balance as of October 31, 2021         ( 3,754)                                             ( 1,979)                                        ( 5,733)                                                     
  Other comprehensive (loss) income      ( 2,430)                                             255                                             ( 2,175)                                                     
  Balance as of October 31, 2022         ( 6,184)                                             ( 1,724)                                        ( 7,908)                                                     
  Other comprehensive income             518                                                                                       1,724                                                            2,242  
  Balance as of October 31, 2023         $                                      ( 5,666)      $                                        —      $                                                  ( 5,666)  

Foreign Currency

The Company has foreign subsidiaries whose functional currencies are the Chilean Peso. Their balance sheets are translated to U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and their income statements are translated at average exchange rates during the reporting period. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are recorded as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income.

The Company's foreign subsidiaries incurred aggregate foreign exchange transaction losses of approximately $ 204,000 646,000

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue from contracts with customers, and recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. To achieve that core principle, the Company applies the following steps:

• Identify the contract(s) with a customer;

• Identify the performance obligations in the contract;

• Determine the transaction price;

• Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract;

• Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation.

The Company determines the appropriate method by which it recognizes revenue by analyzing the nature of the products or services being provided as well as the terms and conditions of contracts or arrangements entered into with its customers. The Company accounts for a contract when it has approval and commitment from both parties, the rights of the parties are identified, payment terms are identified, the contract has commercial substance and collectability of consideration is probable. A 
contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct good or service (i.e., performance obligation) identified in the contract and each performance obligation is valued based on its estimated relative standalone selling price.

The Company recognizes the majority of its revenue at a point in time when it satisfies a performance obligation and transfers control of the product to the respective customer. The amount of revenue that is recognized is based on the transaction price, which represents the invoiced amount and includes estimates of variable consideration such as allowances for estimated customer discounts or concessions, where applicable. The amount of variable consideration included in the transaction price may
be constrained and is included only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue recognized under the contract will not occur in a future period.

Agribusiness revenue - Revenue from lemon sales is generally recognized at a point in time when the customer takes control of the fruit from the Company’s packinghouse, which aligns with the transfer of title to the customer. The Company has elected to treat any shipping and handling costs incurred after control of the goods has been transferred to the customer as agribusiness costs.

The Company’s avocados are packed and sold by third-party packinghouses. The Company’s arrangements with its third-party packinghouses are such that the Company is the producer and supplier of the product and the third-party packinghouses are the Company’s customers. The Company controls the product until it is delivered to the third-party packinghouses at which time control of the product is transferred to the third-party packinghouses and revenue is recognized.

Revenue from crop insurance proceeds is recorded when the amount can be reasonably determined and upon establishment of the present right to payment. We recorded agribusiness revenues from crop insurance proceeds of $ 769,000 449,000 no

Advertising Expense

Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. immaterial 165,000 178,000

Leases

Accounting for Leases as a Lessee- The Company enters into leases as a lessee generally for agricultural land and packinghouse facilities and equipment. The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease or contains a lease at inception. Operating and finance leases are included in other assets, accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on its consolidated balance sheets. Lease right-of-use (“ROU”) assets represent the right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease 
liabilities represent the obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease, measured on a discounted basis. Lease ROU assets and lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value of the future minimum lease payments over the lease term at commencement date. The Company uses either its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date, or the rate implicit in the lease, if known, in determining the present value of future payments.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)

Leases (continued)

Operating lease expense for minimum lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet as the Company has elected to recognize lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The Company had material leases with related parties which are further described in Note 15 - Related-Party Transactions.

Certain of the Company’s agricultural land agreements contain variable costs based on a percentage of the operating results of the leased property. Such variable lease costs are expensed as incurred. These land agreements also contain costs for non-lease components, such as water usage, which the Company accounts for separately from the lease components. For all other agreements, the Company generally combines lease and non-lease components in calculating the ROU assets and lease liabilities. 
See Note 13 - Leases for additional information.

Accounting for Leases as a Lessor- Leases in which the Company acts as the lessor include land, residential and commercial units and are all classified as operating leases. Certain of the Company’s contracts contain variable income based on a percentage of the operating results of the leased asset. Certain of the Company’s contracts contain non-lease components such as water, utilities and common area services. The Company has elected to not separate lease and non-lease components for its lessor
arrangements and the combined component is accounted for entirely under ASC 842, Leases. The underlying asset in an operating lease arrangement is carried at depreciated cost within property, plant, and equipment, net on the consolidated balance sheets. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the useful life of the underlying asset. The Company recognizes operating lease revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Basic and Diluted Net Income (Loss) per Share

Basic net income (loss) per common share is calculated using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period without consideration of the dilutive effect of conversion of preferred stock. Diluted net income (loss) per common share is calculated using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period plus the dilutive effect of conversion of unvested, restricted stock and preferred stock.

Diluted net income (loss) per common share is calculated using the more dilutive method of either the two-class method or the treasury stock method. Unvested stock-based compensation awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends as participating shares are included in computing earnings per share. The Company’s unvested, restricted stock awards qualify as participating shares.

Defined Benefit Retirement Plan

The Company sponsored a defined benefit retirement plan (the “Plan”) that was frozen in June 2004, and no future benefits accrued to participants subsequent to that time. In fiscal year 2021, the Company terminated the Plan effective December 31, 2021. On November 4, 2022, the Company entered into an agreement with Principal Life Insurance Company for the purchase of an annuity contract in connection with the Plan termination. On November 10, 2022, the annuity contract was purchased for $ 
12,617,000 2,500,000

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

3. Asset Sales and Disposals

Northern Properties

In October 2022, the Company entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement, as amended, (the “Agreement”) with PGIM Real Estate Finance, LLC (“PGIM”) to sell 3,537 100,405,000 397,000 100,008,000 98,411,000

The following is a summary of the transaction (in thousands):

  Net cash proceeds received                        $          85,494  
  Debt directly repaid through the transaction                 12,917  
  Total net proceeds received                                  98,411  
  Less: net book value of assets sold                                  
  Cultural costs                                                3,853  
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets         155                
  Property, plant and equipment, net                           53,144  
  Intangible assets, net                            12                 
  Other assets                                                  1,320  
  Accrued liabilities                               ( 68)              
                                                               58,416  
  Gain on disposal of assets                        $          39,995  

The proceeds were used to pay down all of the Company’s domestic debt except the AgWest Farm Credit $ 40,000,000 1,667,000 1,236,000 3,334,000

On January 31, 2023, the Company entered into a Farm Management Agreement (“FMA”) with an affiliate of PGIM to provide farming, management and operations services related to the Northern Properties. The FMA has an initial term expiring March 31, 2024, and thereafter continuing from year to year unless earlier terminated under the terms of the FMA. Further, on January 31, 2023, the Company entered into a Grower Packing and Marketing Agreement to provide packing, marketing and selling services for
lemons harvested on the Northern Properties for a minimum five-year

Cadiz Ranch

In April 2023, the Company determined that citrus farming operations were economically unviable on 670 9,012,000

Oxnard Lemon

In October 2022, the Company sold the Oxnard Lemon property and packing facility located in Ventura County, California. The Company received net proceeds of $ 19,144,000 846,000 36 24

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4. Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets

Prepaid expenses and other current assets consist of the following as of October 31 (in thousands):

                                      2023                 2022             
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Prepaid supplies and insurance      $         1,667      $         2,958  
  Assets held for sale                535                            2,670  
  Sales tax receivable                490                  475              
  Income tax receivable               816                  —                
  Lemon supplier advances             791                            1,188  
  Other                                         1,289                1,205  
                                      $         5,588      $         8,496  

5. Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment consist of the following as of October 31 (in thousands):

                                           2023                     2022                 
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Land                                     $            55,974      $            87,617  
  Land improvements                                     29,925                   37,221  
  Buildings and building improvements                   36,983                   37,929  
  Equipment                                             58,574                   61,615  
  Orchards and vineyards                                43,258                   60,657  
  Construction in progress                              16,977                   28,489  
                                                       241,691                  313,528  
  Less accumulated depreciation                      ( 81,060)                ( 90,900)  
                                           $           160,631      $           222,628  

Depreciation expense was $ 7,701,000 9,075,000 8,883,000

Refer to Note 3 - Asset Sales and Disposals for discussion on the Company's significant property, plant and equipment transactions.

6. Real Estate Development

Real estate development assets are comprised of land and land development costs for the East Area II property in the amount of $ 9,987,000 9,706,000

East Area I, Retained Property and East Area II

In fiscal year 2005, the Company began capitalizing the costs of two 550 50 20,000,000

The Company and LLCB also entered into a Retained Property Development Agreement on the Transaction Date (the “Retained Property Agreement”). Under the terms of the Retained Property Agreement, LLCB transferred certain contributed East Area I property, which is entitled for commercial development, back to the Company (the “Retained Property”) and arranged for the design and construction of certain improvements to the Retained Property, subject to certain reimbursements by the Company. The 
balance in East Area II includes estimated costs incurred by and reimbursable to LLCB of $ 3,444,000

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

6. Real Estate Development (continued)

In January 2018, LLCB entered into a $ 45,000,000 35,000,000 2.85 no

In February 2018, the Company and certain principals from Lewis guaranteed the obligations under the Loan. The guarantors are jointly and severally liable for all Loan obligations in the event of default by LLCB. The guarantee continues in effect until all of the Loan obligations are fully paid and the Loan terminates. The $ 1,080,000

In October 2022, the Company entered into a joint venture with Lewis for the development of the Retained Property. The Company formed LLCB II, LLC (“LLCB II”) as the development entity, contributed the Retained Property to the joint venture and sold a 50 7,975,000 7,917,000 4,652,000 465,000 4,187,000 525,000

Through October 31, 2023, LLCB has closed on lot sales representing 707 121

Other Real Estate Development Projects

In fiscal year 2020, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Sevilla property for $ 2,700,000 2,577,000 immaterial

In December 2017, the Company sold its Centennial property with a net book value of $ 2,983,000 3,250,000 3,000,000 161,000

7. Equity in Investments

Limco Del Mar, Ltd.

The Company has a 1.3 26.8 50

The Company provides Del Mar with farm management, orchard land development and accounting services and received expense reimbursements of $ 206,000 202,000 200,000 1,161,000 1,568,000 1,681,000 347,000 703,000

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

7. Equity in Investments (continued)

Romney Property Partnership

In May 2007, the Company and an individual formed the Romney Property Partnership (“Romney”) for the purpose of owning and leasing an office building and adjacent lot in Santa Paula, California. The Company paid $ 489,000 75 75 25

Rosales S.A.

The Company currently has a 47 35 12

Rosales’ functional currency is the Chilean Peso. The following financial information has been translated to U.S. dollars. In addition, as a result of the Company’s acquisition of its equity interest, basis differences were identified between the historical cost of the net assets of Rosales and the proportionate fair value of the net assets acquired. Such basis differences aggregated to $ 1,683,000 343,000 925,000 143,000 2,122,000 87,000 118,000 180,000

The Company recognized $ 4,581,000 3,615,000 3,405,000 5,826,000 3,821,000 5,304,000 626,000 270,000

Limoneira Lewis Community Builders, LLC (“LLCB”)

As described in Note 6 - Real Estate Development, the Company has a joint venture with Lewis for the residential development of its East Area I real estate development project. In addition to the assessment performed by the Company of its investment in LLCB under the requirements of Regulation S-X Rule 4-08(g), the Company also assessed its investment in LLCB under the requirements of Regulation S-X Rule 3-09(b). LLCB was deemed significant for the years ended October 31, 2023 and 2021 but was 
not significant for the year ended October 31, 2022. Therefore, the audited financial statements of LLCB for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 are provided as exhibits to this document to comply with this rule. Additionally, there is a basis difference between the Company’s historical investment in the project and the amount recorded in members’ capital by LLCB of $ 58,282,000 8,006,000 717,000 77,000 1,434,000 5,851,000 1,015,000 4,508,000

LLCB II, LLC (“LLCB II”)

As described in Note 6 - Real Estate Development, in October 2022, the Company formed a joint venture with Lewis for the residential development of its Retained Property. Control is shared with Lewis, therefore the Company's investment in LLCB II is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

7. Equity in Investments (continued)

The following is financial information of the equity method investees for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021 (in thousands):

  2023                         Del Mar      Romney                Rosales               
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Current assets                    $—      $             13       $3,637      124,939  
  Non-current assets              $797      $            597       $2,547            —  
  Current liabilities              $13      $              3       $3,032        7,104  
  Non-current liabilities           $—      $              —       $1,085            —  
  Revenues                      $1,434      $             22      $10,903       30,933  
  Operating income (loss)         $100      $           ( 4)         $738       11,770  
  Net income (loss)               $100      $           ( 4)         $538       11,770  
  2022                                                                                  
  Current assets                  $654      $              —       $3,478      116,596  
  Non-current assets              $807      $            612       $2,606            —  
  Current liabilities               $—      $              —       $3,076       10,531  
  Non-current liabilities           $—      $              —       $1,686            —  
  Revenues                      $2,882      $              6       $7,177        2,500  
  Operating income (loss)       $1,823      $           ( 1)         $272        1,809  
  Net income (loss)             $1,823      $           ( 1)          $26        1,809  
  2021                                                                                  
  Revenues                      $2,059      $             17       $9,862       42,853  
  Operating income (loss)       $1,052      $           ( 4)         $438        9,087  
  Net income (loss)             $1,052      $           ( 4)          $35        9,087  

The Company’s investment and equity in earnings (losses) of the equity method investees are as follows (in thousands):

                                           Del Mar      Romney      Rosales                  LLCB II       Total              
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Investment balance October 31, 2020      $            $           $            57,142      $                 $      61,214  
  Equity earnings (losses)                 296          ( 3)        ( 164)        3,074      —                         3,203  
  Cash distributions                       ( 219)       —           ( 106)                   —            ( 325)              
  Foreign currency adjustments             —            —           ( 20)                    —             ( 20)              
  Investment balance October 31, 2021                   508                      60,216      —                        64,072  
  Equity earnings (losses)                 510          ( 1)        ( 106)                   —                         1,341  
  Cash distributions                       ( 483)       —           —                        —            ( 483)              
  Investment contributions                 —            —           —                                                  8,023  
  Foreign currency adjustments             —            —           ( 98)                    —             ( 98)              
  Investment balance October 31, 2022                   507                      61,154                               72,855  
  Equity earnings (losses)                 28           ( 5)        166           5,134      ( 1)                      5,322  
  Cash distributions                       ( 220)       —           —                        —            ( 220)              
  Cash contributions                       —            —           —                        525             525              
  Capitalized interest                     —            —           —                        322             322              
  Foreign currency adjustments             —            —           12                       —                12              
  Investment balance October 31, 2023      $            $           $            66,288      $                 $      78,816  

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

8. Goodwill and Intangible Assets

A summary of the change in the carrying amount of goodwill is as follows (in thousands):

                                               Goodwill Carrying Amount             
  Balance at October 31, 2021                  $                             1,527  
  Foreign currency translation adjustment      ( 21)                                
  Balance at October 31, 2022                  $                             1,506  
  Foreign currency translation adjustment      6                                    
  Balance at October 31, 2023                  $                             1,512  

Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis or when an event or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable. The Company concluded that no potential impairment indicators existed during any interim period and performed its annual assessment of goodwill impairment as of July 31, 2023 with no impairment noted. The Company did not incur any goodwill impairment losses in fiscal years 2023, 2022 or 2021, as the estimated fair values of its reporting units
were in excess of their carrying values.

As of October 31, 2023, the Company allocated goodwill to its reportable segments as follows: Fresh Lemons $ 942,000 570,000

Intangible assets consist of the following as of October 31 (in thousands):

                                         2023                                                                            2022                                         
                                         Gross Carrying Amount                  Accumulated Amortization                 Gross Carrying Amount                        
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Trade names and trademarks             $                           2,108      ( 1,104)                      1,004      $                          2,108      1,227  
  Customer relationships                                             4,037      ( 2,111)                      1,926                                 4,037      2,377  
  Non-competition agreement              437                                    ( 132)                                   437                                          
  Acquired water and mineral rights                                  3,422      —                             3,422                                 3,352      3,352  
                                         $                          10,004      $                             6,657      $                          9,934      7,317  

Amortization expense totaled $ 730,000 723,000 929,000

Estimated future amortization expense of intangible assets are as follows (in thousands):

        2024        $        711  
        2025      711             
        2026      711             
        2027      427             
        2028      427             
  Thereafter      248             
                    $      3,235  

9. Other Assets

Investments in Mutual Water Companies

The Company’s investments in various not-for-profit mutual water companies provide it with the right to receive a proportionate share of water from each of the not-for-profit mutual water companies that have been invested in and do not constitute voting shares and/or rights. In January 2023, the Company sold an investment in a mutual water company with a net book value of $ 1,320,000 5,703,000 6,500,000

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

10. Accrued Liabilities

Accrued liabilities consist of the following as of October 31 (in thousands):

                          2023                 2022              
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Compensation            $         2,858      $          3,572  
  Property taxes          548                  664               
  Operating expenses                2,223                 2,341  
  Leases                            2,150                 2,026  
  Other                   872                             2,676  
                          $         8,651      $         11,279  

11. Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt is comprised of the following as of October 31 (in thousands):

                                                                                                                                                                                                            2023                  2022               
  AgWest Farm Credit revolving and non-revolving lines of credit: the interest rate of the revolving line of credit is variable based on the one-month Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”), w...      $         40,000         $       88,521  
  AgWest Farm Credit term loan: The interest rate was fixed at 2.77% until July 1, 2025, becoming variable for the remainder of the loan. The loan was repaid in January 2023.                              —                                 5,555  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  AgWest Farm Credit term loan: The interest rate was fixed at 3.24%. The loan was repaid in January 2023.                                                                                                  —                      919               
  AgWest Farm Credit term loan: The interest rate was fixed at 3.24%. The loan was repaid in January 2023.                                                                                                  —                                 7,562  
  AgWest Farm Credit term loan: The interest rate was fixed at 3.19%. The loan was repaid in January 2023.                                                                                                  —                                 2,003  
  Banco de Chile term loan: The interest rate is fixed at 6.48%. The loan is payable in annual installments through January 2025.                                                                           583                    675               
  Banco de Chile COVID-19 loans: The interest rates are fixed at 3.48%. The loans are payable in monthly installments through September 2024.                                                               112                    233               
  Banco de Chile COVID-19 loans: The interest rates are fixed at 3.48% and 4.26%. The loans are payable in monthly installments through September 2026.                                                     314                    434               
  Subtotal                                                                                                                                                                                                            41,009                105,902  
  Less deferred financing costs, net of accumulated amortization                                                                                                                                            —                       94               
  Total long-term debt, net                                                                                                                                                                                           41,009                105,808  
  Less current portion                                                                                                                                                                                      381                               1,732  
  Long-term debt, less current portion                                                                                                                                                                      $         40,628         $      104,076  

The Company entered into a Master Loan Agreement (the “MLA”) with AgWest Farm Credit, formerly known as Farm Credit West, (the “Lender”) dated June 1, 2021, together with a revolving credit facility supplement (the “Revolving Credit Supplement”), a non-revolving credit facility supplement (the “Non-Revolving Credit Supplement,” and together with the Revolving Credit Supplement, the “Supplements”) and an agreement to convert to a fixed interest rate for a period of time as described in the table 
above (“Fixed Interest Rate Agreement”). The MLA governs the terms of the Supplements.

In March 2020, the Company entered into a revolving equity line of credit promissory note and loan agreement with the Lender for a $ 15,000,000 3 20

The Supplements provide aggregate borrowing capacity of $ 115,000,000 75,000,000 40,000,000 40,000,000 75,000,000

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

11. Long-Term Debt (continued)

In January 2023, the Company used the proceeds from the Northern Properties sale as described in Note 3 - Asset Sales and Disposals to reduce the Company's long-term debt.

The interest rate in effect under the Revolving Credit Supplement automatically adjusts on the first day of each month. The interest rate for any amount outstanding under the Revolving Credit Supplement was based on the one-month LIBOR plus or minus an applicable margin. As of January 1, 2023, the rate transitioned from LIBOR to the SOFR. The applicable margin ranges from 1.68 2.28

The interest rate in effect under the Non-Revolving Credit Supplement is a fixed interest rate of 3.57 0.50

All indebtedness under the MLA, including any indebtedness under the Supplements, is secured by a first lien on Company-owned stock or participation certificates, Company funds maintained with the Lender, the Lender’s unallocated surplus, and certain of the Company’s agricultural properties and certain of the Company’s building fixtures and improvements and investments in mutual water companies associated with the pledged agricultural properties. The MLA includes customary default provisions. 
Should an event of default occur, the Lender, at its option, may declare all or any portion of the indebtedness under the MLA to be immediately due and payable without demand, notice of nonpayment, protest or prior recourse to collateral, and terminate or suspend the Company’s right to draw or request funds on any loan or line of credit.

The MLA subjects the Company to affirmative and restrictive covenants including, among other customary covenants, financial reporting requirements, requirements to maintain and repair any collateral, restrictions on the sale of assets, restrictions on the use of proceeds, prohibitions on the incurrence of additional debt and restrictions on the purchase or sale of major assets of the Company’s business. The Company is also subject to a financial covenant that requires it to maintain compliance 
with a specific debt service coverage ratio on an annual basis. In September 2023, the Lender modified the covenant to defer measurement as of October 31, 2023 and resume a debt service coverage ratio of 1.25

The Company received annual cash patronage dividends from the Lender of $ 1,413,000 1,582,000 1,170,000

Interest is capitalized on non-bearing orchards, real estate development projects and significant construction in progress. The Company capitalized interest of $ 864,000 582,000 1,110,000

Principal payments on the Company’s long-term debt are due as follows (in thousands):

  2024      $           381  
  2025      595              
  2026               40,033  
            $        41,009  

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

12. Other Long-Term Liabilities

Other long-term liabilities consist of the following as of October 31 (in thousands):

                                 2023                 2022             
  Minimum pension liability      $             —      $         2,272  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Loan guarantee                           1,080                1,080  
  Leases                                   2,316                5,062  
  Other                                    1,159                1,393  
                                 $         4,555      $         9,807  

13. Leases

Lessor Arrangements

The Company enters into leasing transactions in which it rents certain of its assets and the Company is the lessor. These lease contracts are typically classified as operating leases with remaining terms ranging from one month 19

The following table presents the components of the Company’s operating lease portfolio included in property, plant and equipment, net as of October 31 (in thousands):

                                                                 2023                      2022                  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Land and land improvements                                     $             12,333      $             13,619  
  Buildings, equipment and building improvements                               20,729                    19,983  
  Orchards                                                                      8,410                     8,410  
  Less: accumulated depreciation                                 ( 8,931)                  ( 7,912)              
  Property, plant and equipment, net under operating leases      $             32,541      $             34,100  

Depreciation expense for assets under operating leases was approximately $ 1,005,000 934,000

The Company's rental operations revenue consists of the following for the fiscal years ended October 31 (in thousands):

                               2023                 2022             
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Operating lease revenue      $         5,174      $         4,998  
  Variable lease revenue       346                  326              
  Total lease revenue          $         5,520      $         5,324  

The future minimum lease payments to be received by the Company related to these operating lease agreements as of October 31, 2023 are as follows (in thousands):

        2024      $        1,252  
        2025               1,031  
        2026      204             
        2027      44              
        2028      44              
  Thereafter      627             
       Total      $        3,202  

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

13. Leases (continued)

Lessee Arrangements

The Company enters into leasing transactions in which the Company is the lessee. These lease contracts are classified as either operating or finance leases. The Company’s lease contracts are generally for agricultural land and packinghouse facilities and equipment with remaining lease terms ranging from one four years

Lease costs consist of the following for the fiscal years ended October 31 (in thousands):

                                     2023                 2022             
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Operating lease costs              $         2,000      $           537  
  Finance lease costs:                                                     
  Amortization of lease assets       145                  120              
  Interest on lease liabilities      32                   34               
  Variable lease costs               —                    242              
  Short-term lease costs             600                  212              
  Total lease costs                  $         2,777      $         1,145  

Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases consists of the following as of October 31 (in thousands):

                                                         Classification                                           2023                 2022             
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Assets                                                                                                                                                
  Operating lease ROU assets                             Other assets                                             $         3,484      $         6,190  
  Finance lease assets                                   Other assets                                                       1,182                1,091  
                                                                                                                  $         4,666      $         7,281  
  Liabilities                                                                                                                                           
  Current operating lease liabilities                    Accrued liabilities and payables to related parties      $         1,831      $         1,892  
  Current finance lease liabilities                      Accrued liabilities                                      319                  268              
  Non-current operating lease liabilities                Other long-term liabilities                                        1,714                4,347  
  Non-current finance lease liabilities                  Other long-term liabilities                              602                  715              
                                                                                                                  $         4,466      $         7,222  
  Weighted-average remaining lease term (in years):                                                                                                     
  Operating leases                                                                                                1.6                  5.1              
  Finance leases                                                                                                  3.1                  3.9              
  Weighted-average discount rate:                                                                                                                       
  Operating leases                                                                                                4.9                  6.1              
  Finance leases                                                                                                  4.2                  3.5              

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

13. Leases (continued)

Lessee Arrangements (continued)

Supplemental cash flow information related to leases consists of the following for the fiscal years ended October 31 (in thousands):

                                                                                    2023        2022  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities:                             
  Operating cash outflows from operating leases                                   $1,931        $577  
  Operating cash outflows from finance leases                                        $32         $35  
  Financing cash outflows from finance leases                                       $297        $219  
  ROU assets obtained in exchange for new operating lease liabilities               $138      $4,612  
  Leased assets obtained in exchange for new finance lease liabilities              $235         $68  
  Write off of ROU asset and operating lease liability                         $( 1,206)          $—  

Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases are as follows (in thousands), which excludes $ 870,000

                                          Operating                 Finance               Total              
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  2024                                    $              1,822            $      319      $           2,141  
  2025                                                   1,815          319                           2,134  
  2026                                    114                           299               413                
  2027                                    23                             46               69                 
  Total lease payments                                   3,774          983                           4,757  
  Less: Imputed interest                  ( 229)                      ( 62)               ( 291)             
  Present value of lease liabilities      $              3,545            $      921      $           4,466  

In addition to operating and finance lease commitments, the Company also has financing transactions which do not meet the definition of a lease, with minimum future payments of $ 224,000 37,000

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

14. Earnings Per Share

Basic net income (loss) per common share is calculated using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period without consideration of the dilutive effect of conversion of preferred stock. Diluted net income (loss) per common share is calculated using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period plus the dilutive effect of conversion of unvested, restricted stock and preferred stock. The Series B and Series B-2 convertible preferred shares 
were anti-dilutive for fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021. The computations for basic and diluted net income (loss) per common share are as follows for the fiscal years ended October 31 (in thousands, except per share data):

                                                           2023                    2022                     2021                    
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Basic net income (loss) per common share:                                                                                         
  Net income (loss) applicable to common stock             $            8,899      $            ( 737)      $             ( 3,942)  
  Effect of unvested, restricted stock                     ( 146)                  ( 50)                    ( 35)                   
  Numerator: Net income (loss) for basic EPS                            8,753      ( 787)                   ( 3,977)                
  Denominator: Weighted average common shares–basic                    17,603                   17,513                      17,555  
  Basic net income (loss) per common share                 $             0.50      $           ( 0.04)      $              ( 0.23)  
  Diluted net income (loss) per common share:                                                                                       
  Net income (loss) for basic EPS                          $            8,753      $            ( 787)      $             ( 3,977)  
  Effect of dilutive preferred stock                       —                       —                        —                       
  Numerator: Net income (loss) for diluted EPS                          8,753      ( 787)                   ( 3,977)                
  Weighted average common shares–basic                                 17,603                   17,513                      17,555  
  Effect of dilutive preferred stock                       —                       —                        —                       
  Denominator: Weighted average common shares–diluted                  17,603                   17,513                      17,555  
  Diluted net income (loss) per common share               $             0.50      $           ( 0.04)      $              ( 0.23)  

Diluted net income (loss) per common share is calculated using the more dilutive method of either the two-class method or the treasury stock method. Unvested stock-based compensation awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends as participating shares are included in computing earnings per share. The Company’s unvested, restricted stock awards qualify as participating shares. Diluted net income (loss) per common share was calculated under the two-class method for fiscal years 2023 and
2022. The Company excluded 117,000

15. Related-Party Transactions

The Company has transactions with equity method investments and various related parties summarized in Note 6 - Real Estate Development, Note 7 - Equity in Investments and in the tables below (in thousands):

                                       October 31, 2023                                                  October 31, 2022                                              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                       Balance Sheet                                                     Balance Sheet                                                 
  Ref      Related-Party               Receivables/Other from Related Parties                            Receivables/Other from Related Parties                        
    2      Mutual water companies      $                                           —             48      $                                           506          133  
    5      Cadiz / Fenner / WAM        $                                           —            206      $                                           1,288        446  
    7      YMIDD                       $                                           571            —      $                                           —              —  
    8      FGF                         $                                           2,681        837      $                                           2,652        837  
    9      LLCB                        $                                           66         3,444      $                                           —          3,444  

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

15. Related-Party Transactions (continued)

                                        Year Ended October 31, 2023                                                            Year Ended October 31, 2022                                                       
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                        Consolidated Statement of Operations                                                                                    Consolidated Statement of Operations             
  Ref      Related-Party                Net Revenue Agribusiness                  Net Revenue Other Operations                 Dividends Paid                   Net Revenue Agribusiness                         
    1      Employees                    $                                         $                                 —          $                                $                                             —  
    2      Mutual water companies       $                                         $                                 1,306      $                                $                                         1,454  
    3      Cooperative association      $                                         $                                 1,689      $                                $                                         1,834  
    4      Calavo                       $                                         $                                 —          $                                $                                             2  
    5      Cadiz / Fenner / WAM         $                                         $                                 2,074      $                                $                                         1,467  
    7      YMIDD                        $                                         $                                 134        $                                $                                           142  
    8      FGF                          $                                         $                                 —          $                                $                                            25  
   12      Principal owner              $                                         $                                 —          $                                $                                             —  

                                        Year Ended October 31, 2021                                                                                                                
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                        Consolidated Statement of Operations                                                                                                       
  Ref      Related-Party                Net Revenue Agribusiness                             Net Revenue Other Operations      Agribusiness Expense and Other      Dividends Paid  
    1      Employees                    $                                         —          $                                                             $—      $               
    2      Mutual water companies       $                                         —          $                                                         $1,160      $               
    3      Cooperative association      $                                         —          $                                                         $1,750      $               
    4      Calavo                       $                                         6,594      $                                                           $721      $               
    5      Cadiz / Fenner / WAM         $                                         —          $                                                           $338      $               
    6      Colorado River Growers       $                                         157        $                                                         $2,772      $               
    7      YMIDD                        $                                         —          $                                                           $123      $               
    8      FGF                          $                                         4,129      $                                                         $2,884      $               
   10      Freska                       $                                         128        $                                                           $150      $               
   11      Third-party growers          $                                         —          $                                                           $147      $               

(1) Employees - The Company rents certain of its residential housing assets to employees on a month-to-month basis and recorded rental income from employees.

(2) Mutual water companies - The Company has representation on the boards of directors of the mutual water companies in which the Company has investments, as well as other water districts. Refer to Note 9 - Other Assets. The Company recorded capital contributions, purchased water and water delivery services and had water payments due to the mutual water companies and districts.

(3) Cooperative association - The Company has representation on the board of directors of a non-profit cooperative association that provides pest control services for the agricultural industry. The Company purchased services and supplies from and had immaterial payments due to the cooperative association.

(4) Calavo - Through January 2022, the Company had representation on the board of directors of Calavo. Calavo owned common stock of the Company and the Company paid dividends on such common stock to Calavo. Additionally, the Company leases office space to Calavo. As of February 2022, Calavo is no longer a related-party.

(5) Cadiz / Fenner / WAM - A member of the Company’s board of directors serves as the CEO, President and a member of the board of directors of Cadiz, Inc. In 2013, the Company entered a long-term lease agreement (the “Lease”) with Cadiz Real Estate, LLC (“Cadiz”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Cadiz, Inc., and leased 670 9,300 200 20 1,200

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

15. Related-Party Transactions (continued)

(6) Colorado River Growers, Inc. (“CRG”) - The Company had representation on the board of directors of CRG, a non-profit cooperative association of fruit growers engaged in the agricultural harvesting business in Yuma County, Arizona. CRG was dissolved in August 2021. The Company paid harvest expense to CRG and provided harvest management and administrative services to CRG

(7) Yuma Mesa Irrigation and Drainage District (“YMIDD”) - The Company has representation on the board of directors of YMIDD. The Company purchased water from YMIDD and had no amounts payable to them for such purchases. Additionally, the Company received fallowing revenue from YMIDD and has a receivable outstanding.

(8) FGF - The Company advances funds to FGF for fruit purchases, which are recorded as an asset until the sales occur and the remaining proceeds become due to FGF. The Company has a receivable from FGF for lemon sales and the sale of packing supplies and a payable due to FGF for fruit purchases and services. The Company records revenue related to the licensing of intangible assets to FGF. The Company leases the Santa Clara ranch to FGF and records rental revenue related to the leased land.

(9) LLCB - Refer to Note 6 - Real Estate Development.

(10) Freska - A former member of the Company's board of directors is a majority shareholder of Freska Produce International, LLC (“Freska”). The Company had avocado sales to Freska and corresponding receivables for such sales. The former board member resigned effective June 14, 2022 and Freska is no longer a related-party.

(11) Third-party growers - A former member of the Company's board of directors marketed lemons through the Company. The former board member resigned effective June 14, 2022 and is no longer a related-party.

(12) Principal owner - The Company has one principal owner with ownership shares over 10% and paid dividends to such owner.

16. Income Taxes

A reconciliation of income (loss) before income taxes for domestic and foreign locations for the fiscal years ended October 31 are as follows (in thousands):

                                         2023                      2022                     2021                    
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  United States                          $             14,395      $             1,911      $             ( 1,459)  
  Foreign                                ( 1,031)                  ( 1,562)                 ( 2,704)                
  Income (loss) before income taxes      $             13,364      $               349      $             ( 4,163)  

The components of the (provision) benefit for income taxes for the fiscal years ended October 31 are as follows (in thousands):

                                              2023                          2022                  2021            
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Current:                                                                                                        
  Federal                                     $             ( 5,696)           $      ( 178)      $           37  
  State                                       ( 498)                       ( 93)                  40              
  Foreign                                     —                             ( 4)                  —               
  Total current tax (provision) benefit       ( 6,194)                    ( 275)                  77              
  Deferred:                                                                                                       
  Federal                                                      2,665      ( 477)                  ( 17)           
  State                                       ( 717)                      ( 127)                  127             
  Foreign                                     ( 1)                            56                  79              
  Total deferred tax (provision) benefit                       1,947      ( 548)                  189             
  Total income tax (provision) benefit        $             ( 4,247)           $      ( 823)      $          266  

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

16. Income Taxes (continued)

Deferred income taxes reflect the net of temporary differences between the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income tax purposes. The components of deferred income tax assets as of October 31 are as follows (in thousands):

                                                                2023                             2022                 
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Deferred income tax assets:                                                                                         
  Reserves and other accruals                                   $                   698             $            752  
  Net operating losses                                                            1,970                        5,917  
  Lease liabilities                                             951                                            1,672  
  Minimum pension liability adjustment                          —                                 621                 
  Other assets                                                  43                                151                 
  Stock-based compensation                                                        1,320           604                 
  Total deferred income tax assets                                                4,982                        9,717  
  Valuation allowance                                           ( 2,299)                     ( 1,536)                 
  Total net deferred income tax assets                                            2,683                        8,181  
  Deferred income tax liabilities:                                                                                    
  Property taxes                                                ( 19)                          ( 135)                 
  Depreciation                                                                ( 13,335)                    ( 18,343)  
  Amortization                                                  ( 107)                         ( 175)                 
  Land and other indefinite life assets                         ( 4,138)                     ( 6,592)                 
  Investment in joint ventures and other basis adjustments      ( 6,119)                     ( 4,449)                 
  Right-of-use assets                                           ( 935)                       ( 1,660)                 
  Prepaids and receivables                                      ( 178)                         ( 298)                 
  Other                                                         ( 24)                           ( 26)                 
  Total deferred income tax liabilities                                       ( 24,855)                    ( 31,678)  
  Net deferred income tax liabilities                           $             ( 22,172)             $      ( 23,497)  
  Deferred income taxes — noncurrent assets                     $                     —             $              —  
  Deferred income taxes — noncurrent liabilities                $             ( 22,172)             $      ( 23,497)  

The Company periodically evaluates the recoverability of the deferred tax assets. The Company recognizes deferred tax assets to the extent that it believes that these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, the Company considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. The Company has 
recorded a valuation allowance of $ 2,299,000

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

16. Income Taxes (continued)

As of October 31, 2023, the Company has recorded a deferred tax asset of $ 1,970,000 The net operating losses begin to expire as follows (in thousands):

  Jurisdiction      Gross Amount                 Begin to Expire  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  State                               1,195      10/31/2040       
  Chile                               3,232      Indefinite       
  Holland                    144                 10/31/2025       
  Argentina                           4,043      10/31/2025       

The provision for income taxes differs from the amount of income tax determined by applying the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate to pretax income as a result of the following differences for the fiscal years ended October 31 (in thousands):

                                                  2023                                 2022                      2021                 
                                                Amount                          %      Amount             %      Amount            %  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  (Provision) benefit at statutory rates             $      ( 2,806)      ( 21.0)      $            ( 21.0)      $           ( 21.0)  
  State income tax, net of federal benefit      ( 814)                     ( 6.2)      ( 74)        ( 21.1)      224          ( 5.4)  
  Share-based compensation                          20                        0.2      ( 110)       ( 31.2)      ( 217)          5.2  
  Executive compensation                        ( 395)                     ( 3.0)      ( 98)        ( 27.9)      ( 45)           1.1  
  Tax law change                                   137                        1.0      —                  —      57           ( 1.4)  
  State rate adjustment                          ( 95)                     ( 0.7)      ( 59)        ( 16.9)      ( 78)           1.9  
  Valuation allowance                           ( 436)                     ( 3.3)      ( 357)      ( 101.8)      ( 831)         20.0  
  Foreign rate differential                         66                        0.5      74              21.1      130          ( 3.1)  
  Noncontrolling interest                        ( 48)                     ( 0.4)      ( 41)        ( 11.8)      ( 83)           2.0  
  Other permanent items                            247                        1.9      ( 12)         ( 3.5)      235          ( 5.7)  
  Tax credit and others                         ( 123)                     ( 0.8)      ( 73)        ( 20.7)      —                 —  
  Total income tax (provision) benefit               $      ( 4,247)      ( 31.8)      $           ( 234.8)      $            ( 6.4)  

As of October 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company had no unrecognized tax benefits. The Company files income tax returns in the U.S., California, Arizona, Chile, Argentina and Holland. The Company is no longer subject to significant U.S., state and Chilean income tax examinations for years prior to the statutory periods of three years for federal, four years for state and three years for Chilean tax jurisdictions. The Company recognizes interest expense and penalties related to income tax matters as 
a component of income tax expense. There was no

17. Retirement Plans

The Limoneira Company Retirement Plan (the “Plan”) was a noncontributory, defined benefit, single employer pension plan, which provided retirement benefits for all eligible employees. Benefits paid by the Plan were calculated based on years of service, highest five-year

During fiscal year 2023, the Company made funding contributions of $ 2,500,000

The Plan was funded consistent with the funding requirements of federal law and regulations. There were no

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

17. Retirement Plans (continued)

The following tables set forth the Plan’s net periodic benefit cost, changes in benefit obligation and Plan assets, funded status, amounts recognized in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets, additional year-end information and assumptions used in determining the benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost.

The components of net periodic benefit cost for the Plan at October 31 were as follows (in thousands):

                                      2023                    2022             
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Administrative expenses             $             20           $        718  
  Interest cost                       34                       520             
  Expected return on plan assets      ( 17)                 ( 511)             
  Prior service cost                  4                         45             
  Amortization of net loss            —                        398             
  Settlement loss recognized                     2,700         607             
  Net periodic benefit cost           $          2,741           $      1,777  

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

17. Retirement Plans (continued)

Following is a summary of the Plan’s funded status at October 31 (in thousands):

                                                                                 2023                       2022                    
  Change in benefit obligation:                                                                                                     
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Benefit obligation at beginning of year                                        $           14,607         $               21,417  
  Administrative expenses                                                        20                         718                     
  Plan settlements                                                                           ( 14,427)      ( 3,604)                
  Interest cost                                                                  35                         520                     
  Benefits paid                                                                  ( 100)                     ( 1,327)                
  Expenses paid                                                                  ( 220)                     ( 643)                  
  Benefits and expenses payable                                                  ( 198)                     —                       
  Transfer in                                                                    99                         —                       
  Actuarial loss (gain)                                                          184                        ( 2,474)                
  Benefit obligation at end of year                                              $           —              $               14,607  
  Change in plan assets:                                                                                                            
  Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year                                 $           12,335         $               20,570  
  Actual return on plan assets                                                   11                         ( 2,661)                
  Plan settlements                                                                           ( 14,427)      ( 3,604)                
  Employer contributions                                                                     2,500          —                       
  Benefits paid                                                                  ( 100)                     ( 1,327)                
  Expenses paid                                                                  ( 220)                     ( 643)                  
  Benefits and expenses payable                                                  ( 198)                     —                       
  Transfer in                                                                    99                         —                       
  Fair value of plan assets at end of year                                       $           —              $               12,335  
  Reconciliation of funded status:                                                                                                  
  Fair value of plan assets                                                      $           —              $               12,335  
  Benefit obligations                                                            —                                          14,607  
  Net plan obligations                                                           $           —              $             ( 2,272)  
  Amounts recognized in statements of financial position:                                                                           
  Noncurrent liabilities                                                         $           —              $             ( 2,272)  
  Net obligation recognized in statements of financial position                  $           —              $             ( 2,272)  
  Reconciliation of amounts recognized in statements of financial position:                                                         
  Prior service cost                                                             $           —              $                ( 54)  
  Net loss                                                                       —                          ( 2,459)                
  Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                           —                          ( 2,513)                
  Accumulated contributions in excess of net periodic benefit cost               —                          241                     
  Net deficit recognized in statements of financial position                     $           —              $             ( 2,272)  

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

17. Retirement Plans (continued)

Presented below are changes in accumulated other comprehensive income, before tax, in the Plan at October 31, (in thousands):

                                                                             2023                        2022                  
  Changes recognized in other comprehensive income:                                                                            
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net loss arising during the year                                           $                  190      $                697  
  Amortization of prior service cost                                         ( 54)                       ( 45)                 
  Amortization of net loss                                                   ( 2,649)                    ( 1,005)              
  Total recognized in other comprehensive income                             $             ( 2,513)      $             ( 353)  
  Total recognized in net periodic benefit and other comprehensive loss      $                  228      $              1,424  

The following assumptions, at October 31, were used in determining benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost ($ in thousands):

                                                                           2023      2022              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations:                                  
  Discount rate                                                            NA        NA                
  Assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost:                                             
  Discount rate                                                            NA        2.58              
  Expected return on plan assets                                           NA        2.98              
  Additional year-end information:                                                                     
  Projected benefit obligation                                             $         $         14,607  
  Accumulated benefit obligation                                           $         $         14,607  
  Fair value of plan assets                                                $         $         12,335  

The Company has a 401(k) plan in which an employee can participate after one month 100 4 one year 20 one year 2 676,000 445,000 546,000

18. Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation and Legal Proceedings

The Company is from time to time involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. At this time, the Company is not aware of any pending or threatened litigation against it that it expects will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, liquidity or operating results. Legal claims are inherently uncertain, however, and it is possible that the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity and/or operating results could
be adversely affected in the future by legal proceedings.

The Company was party to a lawsuit, initiated on March 27, 2018, against Southern California Edison in Superior Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles whereby the Company claimed unspecified damages, attorneys’ fees and other costs, as a result of the Thomas Fire in fiscal year 2018. On April 18, 2023, the Company entered into a Confidential Settlement Agreement and Release (the “Settlement Agreement”) with Southern California Edison Company and Edison International to formally 
resolve any and all claims related to the fire. Under the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the Company was awarded a total settlement of $ 9,000,000 6,109,000 3,840,000 agribusiness revenues 2,269,000

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

19. Series B and Series B-2 Preferred Stock

Series B Convertible Preferred Stock

In 1997, in connection with the acquisition of Ronald Michaelis Ranches, Inc., the Company issued 30,000 100.00

Dividends: The holders of shares of Series B Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at an annual rate of 8.75

Voting Rights: Each holder of Series B Stock is entitled to ten

Redemption: The Company, at the option of the Board of Directors, may redeem the Series B Stock, as a whole or in part, at any time or from time to time on or after August 1, 2017 and before July 31, 2027, at a redemption price equal to the par value thereof, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption. Redemption by the Company of a portion of the Series B Stock totaling 14,790

Conversion: The holders of Series B Stock have the right, at their option, to convert such shares into shares of Common Stock of the Company at any time prior to redemption. The conversion price is $ 8.00

Put: The holders of Series B Stock may at any time after July 1, 2017 and before June 30, 2027 cause the Company to repurchase such shares at a repurchase price equal to the par value thereof, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for repurchase. The put features of a portion of the Series B Stock totaling 14,790

Because the Series B Stock may be redeemed by holders of the shares at their discretion beginning July 1, 2017, the redemption is outside the control of the Company and accordingly, the Series B Stock has been classified as temporary equity.

Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock

During March and April of 2014, pursuant to a Series B-2 Stock Purchase Agreement dated March 21, 2014, the Company issued an aggregate of 9,300 4 100.00 9,300,000

Conversion: Each share of Series B-2 Preferred Stock is convertible into common stock at a conversion price equal to the greater of (a) the then-market price of the Company’s common stock based upon the closing price of the Company’s common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC or on such other principal market on which the Company’s common stock may be trading or (b) $ 15.00 30

Dividends: The holder of shares of the Series B-2 Preferred Stock is entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at an annual rate of 4 1,000

Liquidation Rights: In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, the holder of shares of the Series B-2 Preferred Stock is entitled to be paid out of the assets available for distribution, before any payment is made to the holders of the Company’s common stock or any other series or class of the Company’s shares ranking junior to the Series B-2 Preferred Stock, an amount equal to the liquidation value of $ 1,000

Voting Rights: Each share of Series B-2 Preferred Stock is entitled to one

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

19. Series B and Series B-2 Preferred Stock (continued)

Series B-2 Convertible Preferred Stock (continued)

Redemption: The Company may redeem shares of Series B-2 Preferred Stock only (i) from WPI or its designee and (ii) upon, and to the extent of, an election to exercise the option pursuant to the Option Agreement, described below, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation value of $ 1,000

Because the Series B-2 Preferred Stock may be redeemed by WPI at its discretion with the exercise of the Option Agreement, the redemption is outside the control of the Company and accordingly, the Series B-2 Preferred Stock has been classified as temporary equity.

In connection with the sale of the Series B-2 Preferred Stock, Associated Citrus Packers, Inc. (“Associated”) and another affiliate of WAM (“WPI-ACP”), entered into a series of agreements related to the future ownership and disposition of farmland with associated Colorado River water rights and other real estate that is held by Associated in Yuma, Arizona. The agreements allow the parties to explore strategies that will make the highest and best use of those assets, including but not limited to 
the sale or lease of assets or the expansion of a fallowing and water savings program in which a portion of Associated’s property is currently enrolled.

The net proceeds of any monetization event would be shared equally by the parties. The agreements entered into include a Water Development Agreement and an Option Agreement. Pursuant to the Water Development Agreement, Associated granted WPI-ACP exclusive rights to develop water assets attributable to the real estate owned by Associated for the mutual benefit of Associated and WAM. Pursuant to the Option Agreement, Associated granted WPI-ACP an option to purchase an undivided interest of up to 
one-half of the real estate owned by Associated in Yuma County, Arizona (the “Property”) and the water rights associated therewith until January 1, 2026. The purchase price for the Property subject to the Option Agreement will be paid via the redemption by the Company of a proportionate percentage of the Series B-2 Preferred Stock. Unless and until a definitive agreement or definitive agreements with respect to Associated’s real estate and water rights is entered into that would cause the 
cessation of farming operations, Associated expects to continue farming the Property and recognize all results of operations and retain all proceeds from such operations.

20. Stockholders’ Equity

Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock

The Company has 20,000 0.01 No

Stock-based Compensation

The Company has a stock-based compensation plan that allows for the grant of common stock of the Company to members of management, key executives and non-employee directors. The fair value of such awards is based on the fair value of the Company's stock on the date of grant and all are classified as equity awards. In fiscal year 2022, the 2010 Stock Plan terminated and was replaced by the 2022 Stock Plan (both plans collectively the “Stock Plans”) with 500,000 154,580

Performance Awards

Certain restricted stock grants are made to management each December under the Stock Plans based on the achievement of certain annual financial performance and other criteria achieved during the previous fiscal year (“Performance Awards”). The performance grants are based on a percentage of the employee’s base salary divided by the stock price on the grant date once the performance criteria have been met, and generally vest over a two-year

Executive Awards

Certain restricted stock grants are made to key executives under the Stock Plan (“Executive Awards”). These grants generally vest over a three-year

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

20. Stockholders’ Equity (continued)

Stock-based Compensation (continued)

Executive Awards (continued)

During November 2023, subsequent to fiscal year 2023, the Company granted 53,078 14.13 750,000 three years

In fiscal year 2022, the Company entered into Retention Bonus Agreements with key executives (collectively, the “Retention Bonus Agreements”) whereby the executives will be eligible to receive cash and restricted stock grants. During December 2023, subsequent to fiscal year 2023, the Company granted 12,709 19.57 249,000 115,000

Director Awards

The Company issues shares of common stock to non-employee directors under the Stock Plan on an annual basis that generally vest upon grant or over a one-year

Summary of Awards

A summary of the Performance, Executive, and Director Awards granted under the Stock Plan, and the weighted average grant prices, during the fiscal years ended October 31, is as follows:

                                       Weighted-Average Grant Price                                                  
  Performance Awards       79,972                            $13.19                       —                       —  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Executive Awards        193,381                            $14.87       70,000      14.96       95,000      15.26  
  Director Awards          22,836                            $16.26       49,231      13.55       30,663      16.85  
  Total                   296,189                            $14.52      119,231      14.38      125,663      15.65  

Summary of Awards (continued)

The Company recognized $ 3,841,000 2,732,000 2,582,000 1,075,000 604,000 476,000 1,323,000 1,856,000 2,951,000 1,588,000 one two years

Exchange of Common Stock

During fiscal years 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, members of management exchanged 39,472 105,316 46,993 567,000 1,530,000 701,000

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

20. Stockholders’ Equity (continued)

Summary of Nonvested Shares

A summary of the status of the Company’s nonvested shares as of October 31, 2023, and changes during fiscal year 2023, is presented below:

                                     Number of Shares                     Weighted-Average  
  Nonvested at October 31, 2022                              110,897                $14.40  
  Granted                                                    296,189                $14.52  
  Vested                                                   ( 92,564)                $14.29  
  Nonvested at October 31, 2023                              314,522                $14.55  

Treasury Stock

Share Repurchase Program

In fiscal year 2021, the Company's Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing it to repurchase up to $ 10,000,000

Dividend

On December 19, 2023, the Company declared a $ 0.075 1,350,000

21. Segment Information

The Company operates in four

The Company does not separately allocate depreciation and amortization to its fresh lemons, lemon packing, avocados and other agribusiness segments. No asset information is provided for reportable operating segments, as these specified amounts are not included in the measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by the Company’s chief operating decision maker. The Company measures operating performance, including revenues and operating income, of its operating segments and allocates resources based
on its evaluation. The Company does not allocate selling, general and administrative expense, gain or loss on disposal of assets, gain on legal settlement, total other income (expense) and income taxes, or specifically identify them to its operating segments. The lemon packing segment earns packing revenue for packing lemons grown on its orchards and lemons procured from third-party growers. Intersegment revenues represent packing revenues related to lemons grown on the Company’s orchards.

LIMONEIRA COMPANY

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

21. Segment Information (continued)

Segment information for fiscal year 2023 is as follows (in thousands):

 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Revenues from external customers      121,537      20,573      7,046      25,225      174,381      5,520      179,901  
  Intersegment revenue                               31,081                                                              
  Total net revenues                    121,537      51,654      7,046      25,225      174,381      5,520      179,901  
  Costs and expenses (gains)            120,494      45,689      4,034      22,710      161,846                 160,542  
  Depreciation and amortization                                                           7,323      1,253        8,576  
  Operating income                        1,043       5,965      3,012       2,515        5,212      5,571       10,783  

Segment information for fiscal year 2022 is as follows (in thousands):

 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Revenues from external customers      120,885      22,176      17,331      18,889      179,281          5,324      184,605  
  Intersegment revenue                               29,817                                                                   
  Total net revenues                    120,885      51,993      17,331      18,889      179,281          5,324      184,605  
  Costs and expenses                    115,119      43,017       5,524      18,204      152,047         20,559      172,606  
  Depreciation and amortization                                                            8,604          1,194        9,798  
  Operating income (loss)                 5,766       8,976      11,807         685       18,630      ( 16,429)        2,201  

Segment information for fiscal year 2021 is as follows (in thousands):

 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Revenues from external customers      125,448      17,514      6,784      11,635      161,381          4,646       166,027  
  Intersegment revenue                               25,637                                                                   
  Total net revenues                    125,448      43,151      6,784      11,635      161,381          4,646       166,027  
  Costs and expenses                    116,117      36,018      4,211       9,157      139,866         22,682       162,548  
  Depreciation and amortization                                                           8,626          1,186         9,812  
  Operating (loss) income                 9,331       7,133      2,573       2,478       12,889      ( 19,222)      ( 6,333)  

Revenues related to rental operations are included in “Corporate and Other.” The detail of other agribusiness revenues for fiscal years ended October 31, is as follows (in thousands):

                                   2023                  2022                  2021              
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Oranges                          $          5,779      $          9,911      $          4,382  
  Specialty citrus and other                  9,515                 8,978                 7,253  
  Farm management                             9,931      —                     —                 
  Other agribusiness revenues      $         25,225      $         18,889      $         11,635  

22. Subsequent Events

The Company evaluated events subsequent to October 31, 2023 through the date of this filing, to assess the need for potential recognition or disclosure in this Annual Report. Based upon this evaluation, except as described in the notes to consolidated financial statements, it was determined that no other subsequent events occurred that require recognition or disclosure in the consolidated financial statements.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures. As of October 31, 2023, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures,” as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our 
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report.

Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Refer to “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting” and “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” below.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management of Limoneira Company (the “Company”) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in the Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The Company’s management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of Limoneira Company’s internal control over financial reporting, based on the framework inInternal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October 31, 2023. 
Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting and has issued a report on internal control over financial reporting, which is included herein.

Harold S. Edwards

President and Chief Executive Officer

Mark Palamountain

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Limoneira Company

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Limoneira Company and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of October 31, 2023, based on criteria established inInternal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2023, based on criteria established inInternal Control - 
Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended October 31, 2023, of the Company and our report dated December 21, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements based on our audit and the report of the other auditors.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be 
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based 
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions 
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

  /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP  

Los Angeles, California

December 21, 2023

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting. There have been no significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended October 31, 2023, or, to our knowledge, in other factors that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls. Control systems, no matter how well conceived and operated, are designed to provide a reasonable, but not an absolute, level of assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can 
provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.

Item 9B. Other Information

None.

Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

Not applicable.

PART III

Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this Annual Report because we will file a definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act (the “Proxy Statement”), not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report, and the applicable information included in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement.

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement.

Part IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

  (a)(1)      Financial Statements                                                                                                                                                                                  
              Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (Public Company Accounting Oversight Board identification number 34                                                                           
              Consolidated Financial Statements of Limoneira Company                                                                                                                                                
              Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 31, 2023 and 2022                                                                                                                                           
              Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021                                                                                                             
              Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021                                                                                            
              Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Temporary Equity for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021                                                                              
              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021                                                                                                             
              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                                                                                                                            
              Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting                                                                                                                                      
              Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting                                                                                                  
  (a)(2)      Financial Statement Schedules                                                                                                                                                                         
              Per Item 15(a)(2), list the following documents filed as part of the report: those financial statements required to be filed by Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and by paragraph (b) below.                 
  (b)         Exhibits                                                                                                                                                                                              
              See “Exhibit Index” set forth on page 87.                                                                                                                                                             
  (c)         Financial Statement Schedules                                                                                                                                                                         
              Per Item 15(c), registrants shall file, as financial statement schedules to this Form 10-K, the financial statements required by Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210) which are excluded from the annual r...  

Item 16. Form 10-K Summary

None

EXHIBIT INDEX

  Exhibit No.      Description                                                                                                                                                                                           
          2.1      Certificate of Merger of Limoneira Company and The Samuel Edwards Associates into Limoneira Company, dated October 31, 1990 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Registrati...  
          2.2      Certificate of Merger of McKevett Corporation into Limoneira Company dated December 31, 1994 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.3 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 10, and am...  
          2.3      Agreement of Merger Between Ronald Michaelis Ranches, Inc. and Limoneira Company, dated June 24, 1997 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.6 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 1...  
          3.1      Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Limoneira Company, dated July 5, 1990 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 10, and amendments there...  
          3.2      Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Limoneira Company, dated April 22, 2003 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.7 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 10,...  
          4.1      Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, $.01 Par Value, of Limoneira Company, dated November 21, 2006 (Incorporated by reference to ...  
          4.2      Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of $8.75 Voting Preferred Stock, $100.00 Par Value, Series B of Limoneira Company, dated May 21, 1997 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 3....  
          4.3      Amended Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of $8.75 Voting Preferred Stock, $100.00 Par Value, Series B of Limoneira Company, dated May 21, 1997 (Incorporated by reference to ex...  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
          3.3      Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Limoneira Company, dated March 24, 2010 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.9 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 10,...  
          3.4      Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Limoneira Company, dated March 29, 2017 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed ...  
          3.5      Amended and Restated Bylaws of Limoneira Company (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed October 27, 2021 (File No. 001-34755))                  
          4.4      Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of 4% Voting Preferred Stock, $100.00 Par Value, Series B-2 of Limoneira Company, dated March 20, 2014 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 3...  
          4.5      Description of Securities (Incorporated by refer e nce to e xhibit 4.7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on December 22, 2022 (File No. 001-34755))                                  

  Exhibit No.      Description                                                                                                                                                                                           
         10.1      Real Estate Advisory Management Consultant Agreement dated April 1, 2004, by and between Limoneira Company and Parkstone Companies (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Cu...  
         10.3      Lease Agreement dated February 15, 2005, between Limoneira Company and Calavo Growers, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form 10, and am...  
         10.4      Judgment, dated March 7, 1996, United Water Conservation Dist. v. City of San Buenaventura, et al., Case No. 115611, Superior Court of the State of California, Ventura County (Incorporated by r...  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
         10.2      Amendment No. 1 to Real Estate Advisory Management Consultant Agreement dated August 24, 2010, by and between Limoneira Company and Parkstone Companies (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10....  
         10.5      Lease Agreement, dated July 1, 2013, by and between the Company and Cadiz, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, filed July 2, 2013 (File No. 001-34...  
         10.6      Cadiz-Limoneira Amended and Restated Lease, dated February 3, 2015, by and between Cadiz Real Estate LLC and Limoneira Company (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Quarte...  
         10.7      Series B-2 Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated March 21, 2014, by and between Limoneira Company and WPI-ACP Holdings, LLC (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report ...  
         10.8      Contribution Agreement, dated September 4, 2015, by and among Limoneira Company and Lewis Santa Paula Member, LLC (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on F...  
         10.9      First Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Limoneira Lewis Community Builders, LLC, dated November 10, 2015, by and among Limoneira EA1 Land LLC and Lewis Santa Paula Mem...  
        10.10      Retained Property Development Agreement, dated November 10, 2015, by and among Limoneira Company and Limoneira Lewis Community Builders, LLC (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.3 to the Co...  
        10.11      Line of Credit Loan Agreement, dated February 22, 2018, by and between Limoneira Lewis Community Builders, LLC and Bank of America, N.A. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 to the Compan...  
        10.12      Unsecured Line of Credit Promissory Note, dated February 22, 2018, by and between Limoneira Lewis Community Builders, LLC and Bank of America, N.A. (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to...  

  Exhibit No.      Description                                                                                                                                                                                           
  10.13            Guaranty Agreement, dated February 22, 2018, by and among Richard A. Lewis, individually and as Trustee of the Richard A. Lewis Revocable Trust u/d/t dated August 16, 2004, Robert E. Lewis, ind...  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  10.14            Master Loan Agreement, dated June 1, 2021, between Limoneira Company and Farm Credit West, PCA (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed June...  
  10.15            Promissory Note and Revolving Credit Facility Supplement to Master Loan Agreement, dated June 1, 2021, between Limoneira Company and Farm Credit West, PCA (Incorporated by reference to exhibit ...  
  10.16            Promissory Note and Non-Revolving Credit Facility Supplement to Master Loan Agreement, dated June 1, 2021, between Limoneira Company and Farm Credit West, PCA (Incorporated by reference to exhi...  
  10.17            Agreement to Convert to Fixed Interest Rate, dated June 8, 2021, between Limoneira Company and Farm Credit West, PCA (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.4 of the Company’s Current Report o...  
  10.18†           Limoneira Company 2022 Omnibus Incentive Plan, as approved by the Stockholders on March 22, 2022 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed Au...  
  10.19†           Form of Time-Based Restricted Share Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors, Pursuant to the Limoneira Company 2022 Omnibus Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.3 of the C...  
  10.20†           Form of Performance-Based Restricted Share Award Agreement, Pursuant to the Limoneira Company 2022 Omnibus Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.4 of the Company’s Current Rep...  
  10.21†           Form of Time-Based Restricted Share Award Agreement for Employees, Pursuant to the Limoneira Company 2022 Omnibus Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.5 of the Company’s Curr...  
  10.22            Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of September 7, 2022, by and between Limoneira Company and Limoneira Lewis Community Builders, LLC (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 of the Compan...  
  10.23†           Retention Bonus Agreement, dated October 26, 2022, between Limoneira Company and Harold Edwards (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed Oct...  
  10.24†           Retention Bonus Agreement, dated October 26, 2022, between Limoneira Company and Mark Palamountain (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed ...  
  10.25            Standard Industrial/Commercial Single Tenant Lease, dated October 26, 2022 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed October 31, 2022 (File N...  

  Exhibit No.      Description                                                                                                                                                                                           
  10.31            Form of Award Agreement under the Limoneira Company 2022 Omnibus Plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed November 2, 2023 (File No. 00...  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  10.26            First Amendment to the First Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Limoneira Lewis Community Builders, LLC, dated October 25, 2022 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10...  
  10.27            Limited Liability Company Agreement of LLCB II, LLC, dated October 25, 2022 (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on October 26, 2022 (Fi...  
  10.28            Closing Agreement, dated October 25, 2022, between the Company, Limoneira Lewis Community Builders, LLC and Limoneira Lewis Community Builders II, LLC (Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.4...  
  10.29            Farm Management Agreement, dated January 31, 2023, by and between Capital Agricultural Property Services, Inc. by and between Capital Agricultural Services, Inc. and Limoneira Company (incorpor...  
  10.30            Grower Packing & Marketing Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2023, by and between Limoneira Company and PAI Centurion Citrus, LLC (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.7 of the Company’s Qu...  
  21.1*            Subsidiaries of Limoneira Company                                                                                                                                                                     
  23.1*            Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm - Deloitte & Touche LLP                                                                                                                      
  23.2*            Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm - Ernst & Young LLP                                                                                                                          
  31.1*            Certification of the Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a)                                                                                                
  31.2*            Certification of the Principal Financial and Accounting Officer pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a)                                                                                 
  32.1*            Certification of the Principal Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002                                             
  32.2*            Certification of the Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002                                             
  97*              Limoneira Company Amended and R estated Clawback Policy, dated as of October 3 0, 2023                                                                                                                
  99.1*            Limoneira Lewis Community Builders, LLC - Financial Statements as of October 31, 2023 and 20 2 2                                                                                                      
  101. INS*        XBRL Instance Document                                                                                                                                                                                
  101. SCH*        XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document                                                                                                                                                               
  101. CAL*        XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document                                                                                                                                                 
  101. DEF*        XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document                                                                                                                                                  

  101. LAB*        XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document                                           
  Exhibit No.      Description                                                                               
  101. PRE*        XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document                                    
  104              Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted in Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101)  

  Filed or furnished herewith. In accordance with Item 601(b)(32)(ii) of Regulation S-K and SEC Release Nos. 33-8238 and 34-47986, Final Rule: Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financi...  
  Denotes management contracts and compensatory plans or arrangements.                                                                                                                                  

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on December 21, 2023.

  LIMONEIRA COMPANY                               
  By:                    /s/ Harold S. Edwards    
                         Harold S. Edwards        
                         Director, President and  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed below on December 21, 2023, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated:

  Signature                          Title                                            
  /s/ Scott S. Slater                Chairman of the Board of Directors               
  Scott S. Slater                                                                     
  /s/ Harold S. Edwards              Director, President and Chief Executive Officer  
  Harold S. Edwards                  (Principal Executive Officer)                    
  /s/ Mark Palamountain              Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer            
  Mark Palamountain                  (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)     
  /s/ Gordon E. Kimball              Director                                         
  Gordon E. Kimball                                                                   
  /s/ Edgar Terry                    Director                                         
  Edgar Terry                                                                         
  /s/ Elizabeth Blanchard Chess      Director                                         
  Elizabeth Blanchard Chess                                                           
  /s/ Elizabeth Mora                 Director                                         
  Elizabeth Mora                                                                      
  /s/ Barbara Carbone                Director                                         
  Barbara Carbone
