UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM10-K/A

  ANNUAL                                                                         
  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

For
The Fiscal Year EndedDecember 31,2022

or

  TRANSITION                                                                     
  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

For
the transition period from _______________ to _______________

Commission
File Number333-230479

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

(Exact
name of registrant issuer as specified in its charter)

  Nevada                        61-1882326      
  (State                        (I.R.S.         

11-05
& 11-06, Tower A, Avenue 3 Vertical Business Suite,

Jalan
Kerinchi, Bangsar South,59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

(Address
of principal executive offices, including zip code)

Registrant’s
phone number, including area code +603 2242 1288

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act: None

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act: None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes
☐ No

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes
☐ No

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (section 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files).

YES
☐ NO

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated
by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ☐

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer”,
“smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large
Accelerated Filer ☐ Accelerated Filer ☐ Non-accelerated Filer ☒ ☒

If
an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying
with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).

Yes
☐ No

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

  Title              Trading        Name                                  
  of each class      Symbol(s)      of each exchange on which registered  
  Common             SEAV           The                                   
  Stock                             OTC Market – Pink Sheets              
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

The
aggregate market value of the Company’s common stock held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the closing bid price of the
Company’s common stock, as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter:

Not
Applicable

APPLICABLE
ONLY TO ISSUERS INVOLVED IN BANKRUPTCY

PROCEEDINGS
DURING THE PRECEDING FIVE YEARS:

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has filed all documents and reports required to be filed by Sections 12, 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 subsequent to the distribution of securities under a plan confirmed by a court.

Not
Applicable

APPLICABLE
ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS

Indicate
the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

  Class                                 Outstanding  
                               at December 31, 2022  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Common                                 92,519,843  

SEATech
Ventures Corp.

FORM
10-K

For
the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2022

Index

                                                                                                                                    Page  
  PART I                                                                                                                                  
  Item            Business                                                                                                             2  
  Item            Risk Factors                                                                                                        12  
  Item            Unresolved Staff Comments                                                                                           12  
  Item            Properties                                                                                                          12  
  Item            Legal Proceedings                                                                                                   12  
  Item            Mine Safety Disclosure                                                                                              12  
  PART II                                                                                                                                 
  Item            Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities        13  
  Item            Selected Financial Data                                                                                             14  
  Item            Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations                               14  
  Item            Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk                                                          19  
  Item            Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                                                         19  
  Item            Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                                19  
  Item            Controls and Procedures                                                                                             19  
  Item            Other Information                                                                                                   21  
  PART III                                                                                                                                
  Item            Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance                                                              21  
  Item            Executive Compensation                                                                                              26  
  Item            Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters                      28  
  Item            Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence                                           29  
  Item            Principal Accounting Fees and Services                                                                              30  
  PART IV                                                                                                                                 
  Item            Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules                                                                             31  
  SIGNATURES                                                                                                                          32  

CAUTIONARY
NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This
Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts but rather
are based on current expectations, estimates and projections. We may use words such as “anticipate,” “expect,”
“intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “foresee,” “estimate” and variations of these
words and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are
subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, are difficult to predict and could cause
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or forecasted. These risks and uncertainties include the following:

  The                                                                                                                                  
  Economic,                                                                                                                            
  Changes                                                                                                                              
  Actions                                                                                                                              
  Competition                                                                                                                          
  The                                                                                                                                  
  Changes                                                                                                                              
  The                                                                                                                                  
  Other                                                                                                                                

This
report should be read completely and with the understanding that actual future results may be materially different from what we expect.
The forward-looking statements included in this report are made as of the date of this report and should be evaluated with consideration
of any changes occurring after the date of this Report. We will not update forward-looking statements even though our situation may change
in the future and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events
or otherwise.

Use
of Defined Terms

Except
as otherwise indicated by the context, references in this Report to:

  The “Company,” “we,” “us,” “our,” “SEATech” and similar references refer to  
  “Common                                                                      
  “U.S.                                                                        
  “Securities                                                                  
  “Exchange                                                                    

   1  

PART
I

ITEM
1. BUSINESS

Corporate
History

SEATech
Ventures Corp., a Nevada corporation (“the Company”) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada on April 2, 2018.

On
May 2, 2018, the Company acquired 100% interest in SEATech Ventures Corp., a private limited liability company incorporated in Labuan,
Malaysia.

On
December 21, 2018, SEATech Ventures Corp., the Malaysia Company acquired 100% interest in SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited, a private limited
company incorporated in Hong Kong.

On
October 04, 2021, SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited subscribed 60% of the equity interests in SEATech Bigorange CVC Sdn. Bhd., a private
limited company incorporated in Malaysia. The Malaysia Company changed its company name to SEATech CVC Sdn. Bhd. on February 22, 2022.
On February 25, 2022, SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited further acquired 40% of the equity interests in SEATech CVC Sdn. Bhd., which in turn
owns 100% of the equity interests in the Malaysia company.

On
January 03, 2022, SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited acquired 1 share, representing 100% equity interest of SEATech Ventures Sdn. Bhd., a
Malaysia company, from the Chief Executive Officer, President, Secretary, Treasurer, Director, Mr. Chin Chee Seong, with consideration
of MYR 1.

The
Company, through its subsidiaries, mainly provides incubation and corporate development services to the clients. Details of the Company’s
subsidiaries:

  Company                                              Place                             Particulars                              Principal                                               
  name                                                 and date                          of issued capital                        activities                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                       of                                                                                                                                 
                                                       incorporation                                                                                                                      
  SEATech Ventures Corp.                               Labuan / March 12, 2018           100 ordinary shares of US$1              Investment holding                                 100  
                                                                                         each                                                                                             
  SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited                        Hong Kong / January 30, 2018      1 ordinary share of HK$1                 Business mentoring, nurturing and incubation,      100  
                                                                                                                                  and corporate development advisory services             
  SEATech CVC Sdn. Bhd. (F.K.A. SEATech Bigorange      Malaysia / October 04, 2021       20,000 ordinary shares of MYR1 each      Dormant company                                    100  
  CVC Sdn. Bhd.)                                                                                                                                                                          
  SEATech Ventures Sdn. Bhd.                           Malaysia / May 27, 2021           1 ordinary share of MYR1 each            Provision of corporate advisory services           100  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Business
Overview

SEATech
Group principal activity is to provide business mentoring services, nurturing and incubation services relating to client businesses and
corporate development advisory services to entrepreneurs in the broader technology industry, but with a specific focus on the information
and communication technology industry. We will primarily focus our efforts on nurturing ICT entrepreneurs in Asia. Our advisory services
mainly will center on our “ICT Start-Up Mentorship Program”, which is designed to assist tech-based entrepreneurs in solving
ICT industry pain points caused by technical insufficiencies, inappropriate financial modelling and weak strategic positioning within
a competitive environment. The program aims to improve the technical exposure of our clients and to improve their sustainability in the
ICT industry community through a combination of mentorship programs. Currently, our clients are mainly Malaysia based ICT companies with
future prospects in other ASIAN countries.

   2  

Further
as part of our expansion plan, on September 20, 2022 Greenpro Capital Corp. (NASDAQ: GRNQ) appointed SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited as
a listing sponsor to engage potential token issuers to list on Green-X, the World’s first Shariah-Compliant ESG (environment, social
and governance) Digital Asset Exchange (“DAX”) in Labuan, Malaysia. According to global consulting firm BCG, the asset tokenization
market will grow 50 times from US$310 billion in this year, to US$16.1 trillion by 2030, driven by demand from a wide range of investors
for greater access to private markets (Source: World Economic Forum - Global Agenda Council, BCG Analysis).

ICT
Industry in Asia

Asia
has become a hotbed for adoption of some new technologies in recent years, especially in the field of Internet of things (IoT) and robotics.
This is partly driven by manufacturing firms, most notably in China, which are rapidly deploying these solutions. It also reflects commitments
from Asian governments and business leaders to leverage new technologies as a solution to the region’s economic and demographic
challenges, such as robotics as a response to curb labor shortages in Japan. Smart city investments in the region are also eye-catching,
with the high penetration rate of mobile devices allowing some countries to ‘leapfrog’ legacy technologies. The challenge
will be to increase broader adoption of software solutions which have the potential to deliver a more transformative economic impact 1

Driven
by the rapid growth of IoT in recent years, coupled with the investments in the manufacturing and transportation industries, new technologies
are already approaching $1 trillion in annual revenue. Over the next few years, other new categories such as robots/drones and AR/VR
headsets in addition to related software and services will see similar growth. This increasing proportion of spending targeted at new
categories will drive the overall industry to a new growth surge over the next decade as businesses move beyond prototyping into broader
deployments of technologies such as augmented reality viewers and AI-enabled robots.

Sources:

IDC
Corporate USA: https://www.idc.com/promo/global-ict-spending/regional-markets

1.
IDC Corporate USA; see the section titled “New Technologies:”

ICT
Industry - Hong Kong

Hong
Kong’s role as a leading business center in the Asia region can be evidenced by its advanced telecommunications infrastructure.
According to Global Information Technology Report 2016 by the World Economic Forum, Hong Kong is in the third rank in Asia (12th in the
world) in the Networked Readiness Index, indicating Hong Kong’s advanced position in telecommunications infrastructure, regulatory
environment, and business readiness of using information technology. 2 3

The
industry of information and communications in Hong Kong had generated HK$84.1 billion (US$10.7 billion) of value added during 2016, contributing
to 3.5% of GDP. In term of industry data, Hong Kong had household broadband penetration rate at 92.6% (as at February 2018). 4 4

Hong
Kong’s ICT spending is on track to grow 3.8% in 2018 to HK$144.42 billion, according to the latest projections from Gartner. Total
spending on technology and products in the market is projected to turnaround following a 9.2% decline in spending in 2017, and grow a
further 1.9% in 2019 to reach HK$147.19 billion. Communications services will remain the largest category overall, but total spending
in this category is projected to decline slightly from 2017 to HK$49 billion. Spending on devices by contrast will increase significantly
to HK$47.9 billion, taking it closer to becoming the top spending category in the Hong Kong market. Spending on software will also increase
by 9.2% to HK$13.15 billion, and the IT services segment will grow 3.5% to HK$28.4 billion. Data center systems spending will by contrast
stay mostly flat at HK$5.89 billion. 5

   3  

Hong
Kong government has put in place initiatives to foster the ICT industry development, which included funding support, provision of infrastructure,
international cooperation and manpower development. One of the examples will be The Smart City Blueprint, which unveiled in December 2017,
maps out development plans for the next five years to enhance Hong Kong sustainability by making use of innovation and technology. The
Hong Kong government’s Innovation and Technology Fund (ITF) has provided an alternative source of funding for the IT industry.
As of end-March 2018, the ITF had approved 7,359 funding applications on projects with a total of HK$ 14 billion. Last but not least,
Hong Kong has a large pool of skilled ICT professionals, providing services to clients spanning a wide range of businesses. According
to the 2016 Manpower Survey Report conducted by the VTC, 87,794 persons were employed in principal jobs of the IT sector. 6

Sources:

Hong
Kong Trade Development Council: http://hong-kong-economy-research.hktdc.com/business-news/article/Hong-Kong-Industry-Profiles/Information-and-Communications-Technology-Industry-in-Hong-Kong/hkip/en/1/1X000000/1X006NLI.htm

Computer
World Kong Kong: https://www.cw.com.hk/it-hk/hk-ict-market-forecast-to-grow-3-8-year

2.
Hong Kong Trade Development Council; see the section titled “Information and Communications Technology Industry in Hong Kong”,
point 2

3.
Hong Kong Trade Development Council; see the section titled “Information and Communications Technology Industry in Hong Kong”,
point 3

4.
Hong Kong Trade Development Council; see the section titled “Services Provider”,

5.
Computer World Hong Kong; see the section titled “HK ICT market forecast to grow 3.8% this year:”

6.
Computer World Hong Kong; see the section titled “HK ICT market forecast to grow 3.8% this year:”

ICT
Industry in ASEAN

The
economy in Southeast Asia region is expected to grow at a yearly average of 5.2% from 2018 to 2022 7 8 9

10

  Robust                                                                                                                      
  Literate                                                                                                                    
  Well-developed                                                                                                              

Sources:

7.
Source: “Economic Outlook for Southeast Asia, China and India 2018: Fostering Growth through Digitalisation”, OECD, 2018

8.
Source: “Winning hearts, minds in ASEAN”, The Straits Times, 25 August 2017

9.
Source: “ASEAN Matters for America”, East-West Center Publication, 2014

10.
Sources: https://www.atkearney.com/digital-transformation/article?/a/the-asean-digital-revoluti-1

   4  

ICT
Industry in Malaysia

Malaysia,
where our company is based in, is the fourth largest economy in Southeast Asia and is known for its high labor productivity and diversified
economy. Over the years, the country has transformed itself from being a primary commodities exporter into a leading exporter of electrical
appliances, electronic parts, and components. Moving up the industrial value chain, it has also established itself as an attractive regional
ICT hub for services, information and technology, and e-commerce.

The
ICT industry has contributed recorded 18.3% to the national economy in 2017 as compared to 16.5% in 2010. This industry showed an increasing
average annual growth rate of 9.0% over a seven-year period. The contribution of ICT comprised 13.2% while the rest is contributed by
e-commerce in non-ICT industries. The contribution of the ICT industry to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) recorded a growth of 8.4% with
a value of US$45 billion. This information can be found at https://www.dosm.gov.my/v1/index.php.

In
March 2017, Malaysia launched the world’s first Digital Free Trade Zone (DFTZ) 11

In
its 2018 budget 12

Sources:

11.
Source: https://www.mdec.my/news/malaysia-launches-worlds-first-digital-free-trade-zone

12.
Source: www.treasury.gov.my/pdf/budget/speech/bs18.pdf

ICT
Industry in Indonesia

Meanwhile
in Indonesia, the country has the fastest growing mobile market in the Asia-Pacific region, while globally, it is the 4th largest mobile
market in the world. The country has an extremely high penetration rate in mobile device at 112%, meaning 260 million of the country’s
population has access to a mobile device 13

Currently,
the country’s ICT industry has a primary focus on Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and cloud computing, providing solution such as
data analytics, data center management, and managed services. In July 2019, Softbank has announced a $2 billion investment in Indonesia,
aimed to upgrade the digital infrastructure of the country.

   5  

The
government of Indonesia has also introduced different initiatives and national programs, including Go Digital Vision 2020, e-smart IKM
and 100 Smart City Movement to drive the country’s economy towards the digital edge. These programs aim to develop local startups,
support small to medium enterprises (SMEs) as well as to prepare and embrace internet of things (IoT). Most notably, the Making Indonesia
4.0 road map launched in April 2019 seeks to diversify the economy away from a reliance on natural resources by developing higher-tech
export industries. The plan will focus on areas like 3D printing, artificial intelligence, human-machine interface, robotics and sensor
technology, all of which require advanced digital capacity. As such, the government expects to create between 7 million and 19 million
new jobs between 2018 and 2030 to support the development of the industry. The government also expects a growth in the industrial sector’s
gross domestic product contribution from 20 percent to 30 percent over the same period. 14

Indonesia
has already achieved its goal to become largest digital economy in South East Asia by 2020, valued at US$40 billion. Driven by the socio-demographic
and fiscal factors, the market value of Indonesia’s digital economy is expected to reach $130 billion by 2025.

Sources:

13.
Source: https://www.s-ge.com/en/publication/industry-report/20182-ict-indonesia

14. Source:
https://www.thejakartapost.com/news/2019/12/10/ict-sector-gains-strength-as-indonesia-prioritizes-digital-economy.html

   6  

ICT
Industry in Thailand

Whereas
in Thailand, the industrial hub of South East Asia, the country is still in the starting/developing stage in its ICT industry. The country’s
ICT industry is dominated by the hardware market, including CCTV and smart Bluetooth, which account for 67% of the industry value 15

The
government of Thailand is also stepping up its effort to encourage development of new start-ups with tech focus. It has set up the Board
of Investment (BOI), a government agency to promote Foreign Direct Investment into the country by providing information, services, and
incentives. Some of the incentives include permission for 100% foreign ownership, up to 15 years exemption in corporate income tax, and
permission to bring in experts and skilled workers and their families. The initiative aims to encourage firms like venture capitals and
corporate incubators to enter the local market, provide mentorships and accelerator programs that will help to get startup off the ground
and contribute to the growth of technology 16 17

Looking
forward, International Data Corporation (IDC) Thailand predicts that from 2019 to 2022, IT-related spending in the country will reach
US$72 billion. 60% of Thailand’s IT spending will also be on 3rd platform technologies with 30% of enterprises will seek to build
“digital-native” IT environments. Also, by 2024, it is expected that AI-enabled user interfaces and process automation will
replace one-third of today’s screen-based apps in Thailand. The IDC also expects 61% of the country GDP, roughly U$317 billion
(based on 2019 GDP level) will be digitalized by 2022 18

Sources:

15.
Source: https://www.nationthailand.com/Economy/30363105

16.
Source: https://www.truedigitalpark.com/article_details/56_Thailand-has-a-Bright-Future-in-the-Tech-Industry

17.
Source: https://juslaws.com/technology-industry.php

18.
Source: https://www.startupthailand.org/en/over-61-of-thailand-gdp-will-be-digitalized-by-2022/

   7  

ICT
industry in Vietnam

Vietnam
has enjoyed its own economic miracle in recent years, showing the world how it turned the country from one of the poorest nations in
the world to become a middle-income nation. The Southeast Asia country has grown its GDP for an average 6.8% 19 20

Along
with the economy, the country’s ICT industry has also experienced substantial growth of average 31.1% per year from 2014 to 2019.
The industry’s revenue reached US$110 billion in 2019, driven by government’s initiatives, rising middle class, growing internet
usage, and a young population 21

Similar
to Thailand, the hardware segment dominates the Vietnam ICT industry, accounting for 86% of the industry revenue in 2017. However, in
recent years, the industry has seen tremendous potential in areas like software and services, evidenced from increased adoption of software
and service by the private and public sectors. At the same time, the country has emerged as a destination of software outsourcing, competing
directly with India, China, and Philippines. It is currently the eight largest provider of IT services globally.

Various
government incentives have been introduced to encourage further development in the ICT industry. Amongst the incentives, government has
exempted 100% of corporate income tax for IT companies for up to four years, followed by 50% tax exemption for up to nine years. Subsequently,
the corporate income tax rate for IT Company will stay at 10%, compared to a 20% tax rate for traditional companies. The government has
also implemented a zero percent value-added tax for computer programming activities.

On
the other side, new hi-tech parks will be constructed across the country from 2015 to 2030 though a combined effort by central and local
government, and private capital 22 23

Sources:

19.
Source: https://lkyspp.nus.edu.sg/gia/article/can-vietnam’s-tech-start-ups-prolong-the-economic-miracle

20.
Source: https://tradingeconomics.com/vietnam/gdp

21.
Source: https://www.thestar.com.my/news/regional/2019/12/20/vietnam-looks-to-boost-ict-focusing-on-domestic-firms

22.
Source: https://www.austrade.gov.au/australian/export/export-markets/countries/vietnam/industries/ICT

23.
Source: https://www.vietnam-briefing.com/news/vietnams-it-sector-5-industries-to-watch.html/

ICT
industry in Philippines

The
ICT industry in Philippines is relatively young compare to other countries, but the country has started to receive growing attention
and foreign investment in recent years. One of main reasons is the relatively low standard in the country’s telecoms sector, as
a result of lack of competition and limited investment. 24

In
order to overhaul the broadband capabilities, the Department of Information and Communications Technology (DICT) Philippines has introduced
the National Broadband Plan (NPL) in 2017, an US$ 4 billion initiative to deploy fiber optic cables and wireless technology to further
expand 3G, 4G, and LTE services throughout the country 25

Currently,
Business process outsourcing (BPO) is one of the country’s leading generators of income. In fact, DICT has projected around $38.9
billion revenue will be generated in the BPO service in the next six years25. In the past year, the ICT sector has also become top investment
contributor for the country in 2019, attracting US$6 billion of foreign investment 26

Sources:

24.
Source: https://oxfordbusinessgroup.com/overview/calling-all-competitors-network-expansion-efforts-accelerate-amid-growing-demand-data-and

25.
Source: https://www.eastvantage.com/insights/6-reasons-why-philippine-it-industry-booming-and-why-you-should-take-advantage-today

26.
Source: https://subtelforum.com/philippines-ict-sector-investments-reach-all-time-high/

   8  

Our
Solutions and Services

Mentoring

We
believe that tech-based entrepreneurs are the vital agents of positive and transformational change across every aspect of our society
and economy. It is our intention to offer mentoring programs to our clients through which we hope to create a sense of community, wherein
our members will be able to grow their companies exponentially through leveraging skillsets and potential capital provided by our organization.
Through creating a sense of community, we have the potential to become one of the IT Corporate Venture Capital (CVC) Companies in the
ASIA region. Our mentors, for the time being and in the foreseeable future, will comprise of the Company’s officers, whom have
extensive experience in the information and computer technology industry. Additionally, our mentors possess, extensive corporate experience,
corporate management skills, professional networking, and industry knowledge which are necessary to guide tech-based entrepreneurs to
the path of success.

The
exact details of our mentoring program will be adjusted on a case-by-case basis, but will follow a certain basic structure. Our primary
focus will be to provide domain knowledge in delivering ICT-enriched learning experiences and best practices through our years of experience
in the ICT and tech-based industry. We intend to provide professional industry-based advice, conduct market analysis, track performance
metrics and corporate development advisory on ASIA-wide ICT aspects. The Company intends to conduct feasibility report based on the industry
average using comparison of common firms’ performance within the ICT industry.

The
feasibility reports cover seven main areas to clearly identify the pain points that entrepreneurs may encounter within the ICT market:

-
Direction and Strategy

-
Team and Execution

-
Culture and Brand

-
Creativity and Innovation

-
Business Modelling

-
Sustainability

-
Profitability

Match-Making
& Business Opportunities

The
strength and ability of ASIA entrepreneurs are evolving and improving; hence our Company’s mission is to assist these entrepreneurs
to grow globally. SEATech targets emerging-growth entrepreneurs and assist them to sustain their economic positions in the Asia-Pacific
region, as we believe the multilateral business relationship between the countries in these regions has shown a trend of increasing strength
which will continue in the future. We intend to identify emerging-growth entrepreneurs, initially, through word of mouth and existing
industry contacts of our officers and directors, we may also evaluate the possibility of organizing programs or events in future and
to provide a venture pitching platform for tech-based companies seeking venture capital funding. Plans regarding the organizing of events
is in the growth stage, and currently we have not taken measures to finalize such plans. Once entrepreneurs are identified, we will create
linkages between the ecosystem players within the information and communications technology (ICT) industry and assist in solving critical
issue for the continued development of ICT sectors.

   9  

Technology
Team

It
is the Company’s belief that digital products and services are transforming industries, enriching lives, and propelling progress.
We strongly believe that our team with years of experience in the ICT industry will be able to reinforce the importance of digitization
and incubate promising entrepreneurs in the ICT industry who can shape the country’s future. With the experience of our officers
and directors in this industry, we believe that we are able to benefit our members by making recommendations pursuant to the digital
economy, conducting market analysis, and tracking digital progress metrics throughout Southeast Asia.

Financial
and Corporate Advisory Team

Growing
strong regional entrepreneurs is not our sole aim, we also aspire to build an ICT ecosystem in the region through the tool of securitization
that could assist our clients to compete on the world stage. As such, we have entered into a memorandum of understanding with the National
ICT Association of Malaysia (PIKOM), and GreenPro Capital Corp (NASDAQ: GRNQ) to enter into a partnership to create greater value for
the high-growth emerging companies in the ASIA region. In collaboration with Greenpro, our corporate development advisory services can
be flexible arrangement, custom fitted for members and their needs. We provide advisory services to ascertain that our clients are well
structured and have clearly delineated funding options available in the capital marketplace.

Corporate
Program

Despite
the technological advancements, many small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in ASIA are still low in both technology and skillsets.
With our Corporate Programs, we intend to match and enhance performance of ICT entrepreneurs based upon a spectrum of availability, innovation
environment, regulatory environment, and digital literacy. It is our intention to create corporate programs through which our community
clients may have an opportunity to attend seminars, workshops, promotional events that showcase industry expertise during key cross-countries
Southeast Asia events. All such plans remain in development and we have yet to determine a timeline when such programs will become available.

Future
Plan

Marketing

We
plan to explore tech-based marketplaces and attract IT startup entrepreneurs around ASIA countries through building our corporate image
and awareness through corporate seminars, website and pitching events. Further, we had developed a corporate website which will introduce
our SEATech Corporate Ventures Program.

At
this time, we intend for the SEATech Corporate Ventures Program to be comprised of the following:

1.
Mentorship on Pitching - Participate in SEATech’s corporate accelerator programs which will mentor ICT entrepreneur’s pitching
skills and educate their mind-set of current business environment.

2.
Corporate Event - Opportunity to attend seminars / workshops where they will be provided with professional ICT advisory solutions
by our experienced officer and director.

3.
Roadshow and Fund-Raising Advisory Opportunity to participate in event to provide entrepreneurs with knowledge of options available within
the capital market and to enhance their understanding of compliance requirements to respective capital market rules and regulations.

4.
Matchmaking & Business Opportunities Potential collaborations for local entrepreneurs to meet some of the region’s most innovative
start-ups.

We
market our advisory services through this corporate website and utilize search engine marketing to improve the visibility of our corporate
website. At this point in time, our website was in place and accessible at: https://www.seatech-ventures.com/.

  10  

Expansion
and Targeted Market

In
the next financial year from 2022 onwards, we plan to recruit three to five engagement partners in every country that we operate.

In
addition, we will hire additional staff in Malaysia within a year of the public listing of the Company. We believe that hiring fifteen
to twenty employees, which may include accountants, public relations and ICT business consultants, will be sufficient in order to support
our operations. It will also be necessary for us to acquire office space from which we can conduct operations and conduct meetings with
potential clients. We also plan to allocate funds to support our ICT Incubator Program. However, such development will require intensive
research, development and testing so we cannot accurately determine a concrete timeline at present nor have we determined an appropriate
budget for these future activities. We may also evaluate potential acquisitions and venture opportunities in the future which we feel
may have some synergy with our current operations when the Company is successfully listed in the US capital market.

Competition

SEATech
focuses on providing mentoring and advisory services to ICT companies in ASIA. The venture capital industry in ASEAN or even the ASIAN
region has grown substantially over the years, as more start-ups, especially those with ICT focus, will require mentoring and incubation
services in order to move to the next level. Henceforth, the venture capital industry is getting more competitive and SEATech intends
to improve its visibility and the provision of its advisory services in order to stand out from the competition. The Company will seek
to improve its competency in ICT so as to create a competitive advantage over our existing and/or potential competitors.

Customers

For
the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company has generated $548,095 revenue from customers through the provision of business mentoring,
nurturing and incubation services relating to client businesses and corporate development advisory services.

Employees

As
of December 31, 2022, the Company has a total of 3 full-time employees at our headquarter office in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The 3 full-time
employees are administrative staffs of the Company.

Our
director cum Chief Executive Officer, Chin Chee Seong, director, Seah Kok Wah and Chief Financial Officer, Tan Hock Chye have flexible
working hours, up to 30 hours per week, but are prepared to devote more time if necessary.

Our
independent non-executive directors, Cheah Kok Hoong and Louis Ramesh Ruben also have flexibility working hours with no time limits,
but are prepared to devote more time if necessary.

We
do not presently have pension, health, annuity, insurance, stock options, profit sharing, or similar benefit plans; however, we may adopt
plans in the future. There are presently no personal benefits available to our Officers, Directors or employees.

Government
Regulation

At
present, we are subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, which may include business licensing requirements,
income taxes and payroll taxes. In general, the development and operation of our business is not subject to special regulatory and supervisory
requirements.

  11  

ITEM
1A. RISK FACTORS

We
are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are not required to provide the information
under this item.

ITEM
1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

We
are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are not required to provide the information
under this item.

ITEM
2. PROPERTIES

We
have a physical office in Bangsar South with address 11-05 & 11-06, Tower A, Ave 3 Vertical Business Suite, Jalan Kerinchi, Bangsar
South, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Our office space is provided rent free by our director Seah Kok
Wah.

ITEM
3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

From
time to time, we may become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings which arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation
is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters may arise from time to time that may harm our business.
There are currently no pending legal proceedings or claims that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or operating results. None of our directors, officers or affiliates is involved in a proceeding adverse to our business or
has a material interest adverse to our business.

ITEM
4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not
applicable.

  12  

PART
II

ITEM
5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Holders

As
of December 31, 2022, we had 92,519,843 shares of our Common Stock par value, $.0001 issued and outstanding. There were 463 beneficial
owners of our Common Stock.

Transfer
Agent and Registrar

The
transfer agent for our capital stock is VStock Transfer, LLC, with an address at 18, Lafayette Place, Woodmere, New York 11598 and telephone
number is +1 (212) 828-8436.

Penny
Stock Regulations

The
Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security
that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. Our Common Stock, when and if a trading market develops, may fall within the definition
of penny stock and be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities
to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000, or annual
incomes exceeding $200,000 individually, or $300,000, together with their spouse).

For
transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities
and have received the purchaser’s prior written consent to the transaction. Additionally, for any transaction, other than exempt
transactions, involving a penny stock, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated
by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable
to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole
market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly
statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market
in penny stocks. Consequently, the “penny stock” rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our Common Stock
and may affect the ability of investors to sell their Common Stock in the secondary market.

In
addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (“FINRA”) has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must
have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low-priced
securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s
financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that
there is a high probability that speculative low-priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements
make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit the investors’
ability to buy and sell our stock.

Dividend
Policy

Any
future determination as to the declaration and payment of dividends on shares of our Common Stock will be made at the discretion of our
board of directors out of funds legally available for such purpose. We are under no obligations or restrictions to declare or pay dividends
on our shares of Common Stock. In addition, we currently have no plans to pay such dividends. Our board of directors currently intends
to retain all earnings for use in the business for the foreseeable future.

Equity
Compensation Plan Information

Currently,
there is no equity compensation plan in place.

Unregistered
Sales of Equity Securities

Currently,
there is no unregistered sales of equity securities.

  13  

Purchases
of Equity Securities by the Registrant and Affiliated Purchasers

We
have not repurchased any shares of our common stock during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022.

ITEM
6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

We
are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are not required to provide the information
under this item.

ITEM
7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The
following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated
financial statements and the notes to those financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Report.

Certain
statements in this Report constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements, which involve risks
and uncertainties, regarding, among other things, (a) our projected sales, profitability, and cash flows, (b) our growth strategy, (c)
anticipated trends in our industry, (d) our future financing plans, and (e) our anticipated needs for, and use of, working capital. They
are generally identifiable by use of the words “may,” “will,” “should,” “anticipate,”
“estimate,” “plan,” “potential,” “project,” “continuing,” “ongoing,”
“expects,” “management believes,” “we believe,” “we intend,” or the negative of these
words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology. In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance
that the forward-looking statements contained in this filing will in fact occur. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements.

The
forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and, except to the extent required by federal securities
laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which
the statements are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Overview

SEATech
Ventures Corp. is a company that operates through its wholly owned subsidiary, SEATech Ventures Corp., a Company registered in Labuan,
Malaysia, which in turn owns 100% of SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited, the operating Hong Kong Company which is described below. The purpose
of SEATech Ventures Corp. Labuan, Malaysia is to act as a holding company.

The
purpose of SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited is to become the current regional hub for business activities and to engage in operational functions.
SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited owns 100% of, which both companies are in Malaysia, as part of our business development initiative.

Currently,
our physical office in in Bangsar South with address 11-05 & 11-06, Tower A, Ave 3 Vertical Business Suite, Jalan Kerinchi, Bangsar
South, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

SEATech
Group business activities are mainly providing business mentoring services, nurturing and incubation services relating to client businesses
and corporate development advisory services to entrepreneurs in the broader technology industry, but with a specific focus on the information
and communication technology industry. We will, focus our efforts on nurturing ICT entrepreneurs in Asia. Our advisory services will
center on our “ICT Start-Up Mentorship Program”, which is designed to assist tech-based entrepreneurs in solving ICT industry
pain points caused by technical insufficiencies, inappropriate financial modelling and weak strategic positioning Our advisory services
aim to improve the technical exposure of our clients and to improve their sustainability in the ICT industry community through a combination
of mentorship programs.

As
part of our expansion plan, on September 20, 2022 Greenpro Capital Corp. (NASDAQ: GRNQ) appointed SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited as a
listing sponsor to engage potential token issuers to list on Green-X, the World’s first Shariah-Compliant ESG (environment, social
and governance) Digital Asset Exchange (“DAX”) in Labuan, Malaysia. According to global consulting firm BCG, the asset tokenization
market will grow 50 times from US$310 billion in this year, to US$16.1 trillion by 2030, driven by demand from a wide range of investors
for greater access to private markets (Source: World Economic Forum - Global Agenda Council, BCG Analysis)

  14  

Results
of Operations

Revenues
for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021

The
Company generated revenue of $548,095 and $383,240 for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. The revenue represented income from
provision of business mentoring, nurturing and incubation services relating to client businesses and corporate development advisory services.

Cost
of Revenue and Gross Margin

For
the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, cost incurred in providing corporate development advisory services is $454,053 and $307,700.
The Company generates gross profits of $94,042 and $75,540 for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021.

Selling
and Distribution Expenses

Selling
and distribution expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 amounted to $7,613 and $3,079 respectively. These expenses comprised
expenses on website and website maintenance, marketing and networking event.

General
and Administrative Expenses

General
and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 amounted to $182,522 and $175,657 respectively. These expenses
are comprised of salary, professional fee, compliance fee, office and operation expenses.

Other
Income

The
Company recorded an amount of $1,936 and $1,546 as other income for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 respectively. This income
is derived from the foreign exchange gain.

Net
Loss and Net Loss Margin

The net loss was $94,157 for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to $101,650 for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease
in net loss of $7,493 was contributed to the higher revenue generated for the year ended December 31, 2022. Taking into the loss for the
year ended December 31, 2022, the accumulated loss for the Company has increased from $499,923 to $594,080.

Liquidity
and Capital Resources

As
of December 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $136,193. We expect increased levels of operations going forward will result
in more significant cash flow and in turn working.

We
depend substantially on operating activities to provide us with the liquidity and capital resources we need to meet our working capital
requirements and to make capital investments in connection with ongoing operations.

Cash
Used in Operating Activities

For the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, net cash used in operating activities was $59,529 and $85,051. The cash used in operating
activities was mainly for payment of sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses.

  15  

Cash
Provided by Financing Activities

For
the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash provided by financing activities was $0. For the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash provided
by financing activities was $300. The financing cash flow performance primarily reflects the borrowing repayment to director.

Cash
Provided by / (Used in) Investing Activities

For
the financial year ended December 31, 2022, the net cash provided by investing activities was $200. For the financial year ended December
31, 2021, the net cash used in investing activities was $4,250. The investing cash flow performance primarily reflects the investment
in other companies in the ICT industry.

Credit
Facilities

We
do not have any credit facilities or other access to bank credit.

Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates

Basis
of presentation

The
consolidated financial statements for SEATech Ventures Corp. and its subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2022 is prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”) and include the accounts
of SEATech Ventures Corp. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, SEATech Ventures Corp., SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited, SEATech CVC Sdn.
Bhd. and SEATech Ventures Sdn. Bhd. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated on consolidation. The Company has adopted
December 31 as its fiscal year end.

Basis
of consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. All inter-company accounts and transactions
have been eliminated upon consolidation.

Use
of estimates

Management
uses estimates and assumptions in preparing these financial statements in accordance with US GAAP. Those estimates and assumptions affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the balance sheets, and the reported
revenue and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

Cash
and cash equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents are carried at cost and represent cash on hand, demand deposits placed with banks or other financial institutions
and all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less as of the purchase date of such investments.

  16  

Revenue
recognition

Financial
Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued ASC 606. The standard is a comprehensive new revenue recognition model that requires revenue
to be recognized in a manner to depict the transfer of goods or services to a customer at an amount that reflects the consideration expected
to be received in exchange for those goods or services.

Revenue
is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of discounts and taxes applicable to the revenue. The
Company derives its revenue from provision of business mentoring, nurturing, incubating and corporate development advisory services to
ICT and technology-based companies.

Cost
of revenue

Cost
of revenue includes the cost of services and product in providing business mentoring, nurturing, incubating and corporate development
advisory services

Income
taxes

Income
taxes are determined in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 740, “ Income Taxes

ASC
740 prescribes a comprehensive model for how companies should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in their financial statements
uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return. Under ASC 740, tax positions must initially be recognized in the
financial statements when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination by the tax authorities. Such tax
positions must initially and subsequently be measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of
being realized upon ultimate settlement with the tax authority assuming full knowledge of the position and relevant facts.

  17  

Net
income/(loss) per share

The
Company calculates net loss per share in accordance with ASC Topic 260 “Earnings per share”. Basic loss per share is computed
by dividing the net loss by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted loss per share is computed
similar to basic loss per share except that the denominator is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would
have been outstanding if the potential common stock equivalents had been issued and if the additional common shares were dilutive.

Foreign
currencies translation

The
reporting currency of the Company and its subsidiaries in Labuan and Hong Kong, are United States Dollars (“US$”), while
its subsidiaries in Malaysia, maintains the books and record in Ringgit Malaysia (“MYR”), being the primary currency of the
economic environment in which these entities operate.

Transactions
denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing
at the dates of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are translated
into the functional currency using the applicable exchange rates at the balance sheet dates. The resulting exchange differences are recorded
in the statements of operations.

In
general, for consolidation purposes, assets and liabilities of its subsidiary whose functional currency is not the US$ are translated
into US$, in accordance with ASC Topic 830-30, “ Translation of Financial Statement

Translation
of amounts from MYR and HK$ into US$1 has been made at the following exchange rates for the respective periods:

                                                                                 As                      
                                             of and for the year ended December 31,                      
                                                                               2022                      
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Year-end MYR : US$1 exchange rate                                                      4.40      4.17  
  Year-average MYR: US$1 exchange rate                                                   4.40      4.14  
  Year-end HK$ : US$1 exchange rate                                                      7.81      7.80  
  Year-average HK$ : US$1 exchange rate                                                  7.83      7.77  

Related
parties

Parties,
which can be a corporation or individual, are considered to be related if the Company has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control
the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial and operating decisions. Companies are also
considered to be related if they are subject to common control or common significant influence.

  18  

Fair
value of financial instruments:

The
carrying value of the Company’s financial instruments: cash and cash equivalents, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and
amount due to a director approximate at their fair values because of the short-term nature of these financial instruments.

The
Company also follows the guidance of the ASC Topic 820-10, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures” (“ASC 820-10”),
with respect to financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value. ASC 820-10 establishes a three-tier fair value hierarchy
that prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows:

  Level                                                                                                                                  
  Level                                                                                                                                  
  Level                                                                                                                                  

Recent
accounting pronouncements

The
Company has reviewed all recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements and do not believe the future adoption of
any such pronouncements may be expected to cause a material impact on its financial condition or the results of its operations.

In May 2019, the FASB issued ASU
2019-05, which is an update to ASU Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses
on Financial Instruments, which introduced the expected credit losses methodology for the measurement of credit losses on financial assets
measured at amortized cost basis, replacing the previous incurred loss methodology. The amendments in Update 2016-13 added Topic 326,
Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, and made several consequential amendments to the Codification. The amendments in this Update
address those stakeholders’ concerns by providing an option to irrevocably elect the fair value option for certain financial assets
previously measured at amortized cost basis. For those entities, the targeted transition relief will increase comparability of financial
statement information by providing an option to align measurement methodologies for similar financial assets. Furthermore, the targeted
transition relief also may reduce the costs for some entities to comply with the amendments in Update 2016-13 while still providing financial
statement users with decision-useful information. In November 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-10, which to update the effective date
of ASU No. 2016-13 for private companies, not-for-profit organizations and certain smaller reporting companies applying for credit losses,
leases, and hedging standard. The new effective date for these preparers is for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022. ASU 2019-05
is effective for the Company for annual and interim reporting periods beginning January 1, 2023 as the Company is qualified as a smaller
reporting company. The Company is currently evaluating the impact ASU 2019-05 may have on its consolidated financial statements.

Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements

The
Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements

ITEM
7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We
are a smaller reporting company as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are not required to provide the information
under this item.

ITEM
8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The
financial statements required by this item are located in PART IV of this Annual Report.

ITEM
9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM
9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosures
Control and Procedures

  19  

Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over
financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Exchange Act as a process designed by, or under the
supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company’s board of
directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
and includes those policies and procedures that:

  Pertain                                                                                                                                
  Provide                                                                                                                                
  Provide                                                                                                                                

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation
of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed,
have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect
to financial statement preparation and presentation. Because of the inherent limitations of internal control, there is a risk that material
misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial reporting. However, these inherent
limitations are known features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it is possible to design into the process safeguards to
reduce, though not eliminate, this risk.

As
of December 31, 2022, management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria
for effective internal control over financial reporting established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (ICIF-2013)
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) and SEC guidance on conducting
such assessments. Based on such evaluation, the Company’s management concluded that, during the period covered by this Report,
internal controls and procedures over were not effective. This was due to deficiencies that existed in the design or operation of
our internal controls over financial reporting that adversely affected our internal controls and that may be considered to be
material weaknesses.

Identified
Material Weakness

A
material weakness in internal control over financial reporting is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that
results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the financial statements will not be prevented or detected.

Management
identified the following material weakness during its assessment of internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022.

We
do not have adequate segregation of duties and effective risk assessment

Accordingly,
the Company concluded that these control deficiencies resulted in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual
or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by the company’s internal controls.

  20  

As
a result of the material weaknesses described above, management has concluded that the Company did not maintain effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2022 based on criteria established in COSO Internal Control - Integrated
Framework (ICIF-2013).

Management’s
Remediation Initiatives

In
an effort to remediate the identified material weaknesses and other deficiencies and enhance our internal controls, we have initiated,
or plan to initiate, the following series of measures:

  We                                                                                                                                        
  We                                                                                                                                        

We
anticipate that these initiatives will be at least partially, if not fully, implemented by the end of fiscal year 2022.

Changes
in internal controls over financial reporting

There
was no change in our internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this Report, which has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting:

This
annual report does not include an attestation report of the Company’s registered independent public accounting firm regarding internal
control over financial reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by the Company’s registered independent
public accounting firm pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the Company to provide only management’s
report in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM
9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None.

PART
III

ITEM
10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Our
executive officers and directors and their respective ages as of the date hereof are as follows:

  NAME                  AGE      POSITION                                                      
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Chin                   62      Chief                                                         
  Seah                   55      Director                                                      
  Cheah                  56      Independent                                                   
  Louis                  45      Independent                                                   
  Tan                    63      Chief                                                         

  (1)      Member                   

Set
forth below is a brief description of the background and business experience of our executive officers and directors for the past five
years.

  21  

Chin
Chee Seong - President, Chief Executive Officer, Secretary, Treasurer, Director

Mr.
Chin Chee Seong achieved a Bachelor Degree with Honours in Electrical, Electronic and Communication Engineering from National University
of Malaysia (UKM) in 1985. He was the councilor and past chairman of the National ICT Association of Malaysia (PIKOM). He was appointed
as the Honorary Chairman of PIKOM and is currently the Advisor of PIKOM. Additionally, Mr. Chin Chee Seong is also a National Vice President
of SME Association of Malaysia, National President of the Malaysia Cross Boarder E-Commerce Association and Deputy Chairman of the Financial
and Capital Market Committee of the Chinese Chamber of Commerce & Industry of Kuala Lumpur & Selangor (KLSCCCI).

Mr.
Chin Chee Seong served as a technical engineer/technical manager of Seniko Sdn. Bhd. from 1985 to 1996. Seniko Sdn. Bhd. is a third-party
maintenance company which provides maintenance services relating to technology, computer systems, hardware and software. From 1996 to
2000 he was the General Manager of Telekom Equipment Malaysia, a subsidiary of Telekom Malaysia Bhd. From 2000 to 2006 Mr. Chin served
as Chief Executive Officer of JOC Technology, a full-service application service provider. The Company’s services include virtual
domain hosting, virtual domain e-mail services, and on-line e-commerce services.

From
2007 to present, Mr. Chin Chee Seong has served as the Chief Executive Officer of Gonzo Rosso Malaysia, a wholly owned subsidiary of
Japan listed company, Gonzo Rosso K.K., which focused on the online gaming business, specifically operates online games and sells weapons
and items used in games. Additionally, from 2014 to 2016, he was a Non-Executive Director of Galasys Plc., a company that provides information
technology solutions and management services for the amusement industry which including ticketing management, admission control, theatre
ticket management, online e-commerce, membership management, e-commerce, and e-wallet systems. Mr. Chin also served as Independent &
Non-Executive Director at M-Mode Bhd, a digital contents and media company that offers contents through the engagement of devices and
media, from August 14, 2009 to June 7, 2012.

Due
to Mr. Chin Chee Seong’s decades of experience in the ICT industry and his seven years of experience in Online Gaming Industry,
the board of Directors has determined to elect Mr. Chin Chee Seong to the positions of Chief Executive Officer, President, Secretary,
Treasurer, and Director.

Seah
Kok Wah - Director

Mr.
Seah Kok Wah is the current Deputy Chairman of the National ICT Association of Malaysia (PIKOM) and Vice President of the Malaysia Cross
Border E-Commerce Association (MCBEA). He is also a board member of The World Information Technology and Services Alliance (WITSA), a
leading consortium of ICT industry association members from over 80 global economies. He graduated with a Master’s Degree in Computer
Science from California State University, United States of America, in 1996.

Mr.
Seah Kok Wah began his career in Silicon Valley as a software applications developer for Software Publishing Corporation and Netscape
Communications Corporation, from 1994 to 1997. Mr. Seah Kok Wah joined Sun Microsystem Inc., an American company that sold computers,
computer components, software, and information technology services and created the Java programming language, the Solaris operating system,
ZFS, the Network File System, and SPARC, from 1997 to 2003 and held the position of Sun Professional Services Business Operation &
Channels Management of Greater China.

Mr.
Seah Kok Wah co-founded several companies including Bimbit.com Sdn. Bhd. in 2005, Afor Pte Ltd Singapore in 2002 which floated on the
Singapore Stock Exchange in 2008 and subsequently rebranded as “EpiCentre Holdings Ltd”. Mr. Seah Kok Wah was also one of
the co-founders of Galasys PLC in 2010 that was floated on the London Stock Exchange in 2014. Galasys PLC provides information technology
solutions and management services for the amusement industry as abovementioned. He served as its Chief Executive Officer and Executive
Director from 2014 to 2017. Additionally, he has served as Chairman of SCCW Holdings Sdn. Bhd. in 2018 until now.

Mr.
Seah Kok Wah’s corporate management and strategy experience in the information and computer technology industry has led the Board
of Directors to reach the conclusion that he should serve as the Chief Investment Officer and Director of the Company.

On
October 31, 2022, Mr. Seah Kok Wah resigned as Chief Investment Officer of the Company.

  22  

Mr.
Cheah Kok Hoong - Independent Non-Executive Director

Mr.
Cheah, aged 56, is a former Group Chief Executive Director of Hitachi Sunway Information System, better known as Hitachi Sunway, that
thrived in providing ICT and digital solutions and services in ASEAN. Mr. Cheah’s career span over 30 years and have garnered experience
across various industries including business development, mergers and acquisition, business strategy development, regional expansion,
and process engineering across various verticals such as information technology, venture capital, conglomerates, manufacturing, and the
service industry. Additionally, he holds various professional positions which includes the IT advisor to the Sunway Group, Director of
Powerware Systems, and General Partner of Sun SEA Capital. Mr. Cheah is also the Honorary Chairman of the Malaysia Cross Border E-Commerce
Association (MCBEA) since 2019, as well as a Member of the Associated Chinese Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Malaysia (ACCCIM)
under the Finance and Capital Market Consultative Committee since 2018. He is currently the Executive Chairman of SteerQuest Sdn Bhd,
Managing Director of SQ Digital Vision Group Sdn. Bhd. and the Chief Executive Officer of Cognitive Digital Sdn Bhd. In addition, he
is also an Advisor for the Aerospace Engineering Edutech, Angkasa-X Holding.

Mr.
Cheah also serves as an Industrial Advisory Board (IAB) member on both SoftwareONE and Sunway University, where he is dedicated to his
role as the Sunway University Business School’s Adjunct Practice Professor. Furthermore, he is also an IAB member on various boards
within Sunway University itself, including the Department of Computing and Information Systems, the School of Science and Technology,
specifically the Research Centre for Nano-Materials and Energy Technology. In addition, Mr. Cheah is also an External Industry Committee
Member for Master of Business Analytics in the Department of Business Analytics.

Mr.
Cheah is also an instrumental force that has been driving the growth of the Malaysian ICT industry as he is had also previously served
as the Chairman of PIKOM (The National Tech Association of Malaysia) between 2013 to 2015 as well as the Chairman of Human Capital Development,
a Chapter within PIKOM. As of today, he is a renowned advisor to PIKOM’s various sectors and initiatives, namely Cybersecurity,
Venture Investment, and the World Congress on Information Technology (WCIT). On top of that, he also serves as the Chairman of OM (formerly
known as Outsourcing Malaysia) in PIKOM.

Mr.
Cheah’s past achievements include his induction into the PLC Hall of Fame for his leadership and stewardship in promoting the PLC
Leadership programme as part of the National ICT Certification & Standardization Grid (NICS Competence Grid), and the conferment
of PIKOM’s CIO Excellence Award for his outstanding leadership in the ICT adoption in Sunway Group.

Mr.
Cheah holds a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Physics from Campbell University, USA and Tunku Abdul Rahman University College,
Malaysia, since 1990.

Mr.
Louis Ramesh Ruben - Independent Non-Executive Director

Mr.
Louis, age 45, is a Chartered Accountant of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA), a fellow member of Association of Chartered
Certified Accountants (FCCA), a chartered member of the Institute of Internal Auditors, as well as a Certified Financial Planner. Mr.
Louis has over 20 years of experience in accounting, auditing and risk management ranging from large public listed companies to multinational
corporations, government agencies as well as SME’s in a spectrum of industries including plantation, property development, manufacturing,
trading, IT, shipping, retailing, etc. He started his career at Arthur Andersen, and subsequently moved to BDO. He also has experience
in corporate finance with Southern Investment Bank Berhad. Mr. Louis has hands-on experience on other corporate exercises such as due
diligence, IPO’s, issuance of bonds, corporate & debt restructuring and investigative audit. His training and advisory experience
includes topics on Internal & Statutory Auditing, Public Sector/Government Audits, Value-for-Money Audits, ISQC 1, Risk Management
& Internal Controls, Review and Assurance Engagements such as Financial Due Diligence, Forecasts & Projections, Forensic &
Fraud Accounting/Auditing, as well as practical application of International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), Reporting
Standards for SMEs (MPERS/PERS) and public sector accounting (MPSAS). He has facilitated training and provided advisory for public accountants
across Asia Pacific, multinationals and public sector institutions. Mr. Louis is a certified trainer by the Human Resource Development
Fund (HRDF), Ministry of Human Resources Malaysia.

  23  

Mr. Louis graduated from National University of Malaysia with a bachelor’s degree in Accounting. He earned an MBA from the University
of Strathclyde, United Kingdom, graduated with a distinction in 2012 and a doctorate from University of Malaya in 2021.

Mr.
Tan Hock Chye - Chief Financial Officer

Mr.
Tan, age 63, is the National Deputy Treasurer of the SME Association of Malaysia as well as the National Treasurer and Council Member
of Malaysia Cross Border E-Commerce Association.

Mr.
Tan is a Chartered Global Management Accountant of the Association of International Certified Professional Accountants, and a Fellow
Member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, United Kingdom, as well as a Chartered Accountant with the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants. In 1997, Mr. Tan obtained his Master’s Degree in Business Administration (MBA) from Oklahoma City University, United
States of America and he attended Harvard Premier Management Program organized by the Harvard Business School Alumni Club of Malaysia
in 2013.

Mr.
Tan has more than 35 years of extensive working experience in both private and public companies in Papua New Guinea, Singapore and Malaysia.
The public companies that he has worked for includes Dataprep Holdings Berhad (Bursa Malaysia) as Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating
Officer and Group Managing Director from 2003 to 2018, United Engineers (M) Berhad (Bursa Malaysia) as Head, Finance and Accounting of
Trading Division from 1991 to 1994, Malaysian subsidiary of PZ Cussons plc (London Stock Exchange) as Accounting Manager/Local Agent
from 1989 to 1991 and the Malaysian associated company of Chuan Hup Holdings Ltd (Singapore Stock Exchange) as Company Accountant/Secretary
from 1986 to 1989. Private Companies that Mr. Tan has worked for includes Wardah Communication Sdn. Bhd. as Chief Business Officer from
2018 to 2019, Ken-Air Holdings Sdn. Bhd. as Financial Controller and Chief Executive Officer from 1994 to 2003 and Word Publishing Co.
Pty. Ltd. as Management Accountant and Chief Accountant from 1982 to 1985.

Involvement
in Certain Legal Proceedings

Our
Directors and our Executive officers have not been involved in any of the following events during the past ten years:

  bankruptcy                                                                                                                                     
  any                                                                                                                                            
  being                                                                                                                                          
  being                                                                                                                                          
  Such                                                                                                                                           
  Such                                                                                                                                           
  Such                                                                                                                                           

  24  

  Such                                                                                                                                      

Independence
of Directors

The
Company has two independent non-executive directors as members of our Board of Directors, the Company does not anticipate having additional
independent Directors until such time as we are required to do so.

Board
Committees

Our
board of directors has established an Audit Committee and adopted written charters for the committee. Copy of the charter is available
on our website and our board of directors may establish other committees as it deems necessary or appropriate from time to time.

Audit
Committee

Our
Audit Committee is currently comprised of our director Mr. Seah Kok Wah and our two independent non-executive directors: Mr. Louis Ramesh
Ruben and Mr. Cheah Kok Hoong. Mr. Louis is Chair of the Audit Committee and he qualifies as the Audit Committee financial expert as
defined in Item 407(d)(5) of Regulation S-K promulgated under the Securities Act.

According
to its charter, the Audit Committee consists of at least three Board members and such members shall constitute at least a majority of
the Company’s independent non-executive directors. The Company’s website contains a copy of the Audit Committee Charter.
The Audit Committee Charter describes the primary functions of the Audit Committee, including the following:

  Oversee                                                                                                                              
  Oversee                                                                                                                              
  Discuss                                                                                                                              
  Review                                                                                                                               
  Recommend                                                                                                                            
  Meet                                                                                                                                 
  Be                                                                                                                                   
  Take,                                                                                                                                
  Review                                                                                                                               

  25  

Code
of Ethics

Our
board of directors has adopted a code of ethics that applies to all our directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive
officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. The code addresses, among other things, honesty and ethical conduct,
conflicts of interest, compliance with laws, regulations and policies, including disclosure requirements under the federal securities
laws, confidentiality, trading on inside information, and reporting of violations of the code. The code of ethics is available on the
Company’s website at https://www.seatech-ventures.com/.

Shareholder
Proposals

Our
Company does not have any defined policy or procedural requirements for shareholders to submit recommendations or nominations for Directors.
The Board of Directors believes that, given the stage of our development, a specific nominating policy would be premature and of little
assistance until our business operations develop to a more advanced level. Our Company does not currently have any specific or minimum
criteria for the election of nominees to the Board of Directors and we do not have any specific process or procedure for evaluating such
nominees. The Board of Directors will assess all candidates, whether submitted by management or shareholders, and make recommendations
for election or appointment.

A
shareholder who wishes to communicate with our Board of Directors may do so by directing a written request addressed to our President,
at the address appearing on the first page of this Information Statement.

ITEM
11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The
following table sets forth information concerning the compensation of our principal executive officer,
principal investment officer and principal financial officer

Summary
Compensation Table:

  Name                                                    Period                                    Salary       Total  
  and Principal Position                                                                               ($)         ($)  
  Chin Chee Seong,                                        For the year ended December 31,           13,712      13,712  
  Chief Executive                                         2022                                                          
  Officer, President, Secretary, Treasurer, Director                                                                    
                                                          For the year ended December 31, 2021      10,880      10,880  
  Seah Kok Wah,                                           For the year ended December 31,           11,446      11,446  
  Chief Investment Officer                                2022                                                          
  (1), Director                                                                                                         
                                                          For the year ended December 31,           10,880      10,880  
                                                          2021                                                          
  Tan Hock Chye                                           For the year ended December 31, 2022      13,712      13,712  
  Chief Financial Officer                                                                                               
                                                          For the year ended December 31, 2021       7,217       7,217  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  (1)      On                                                                                       

  26  

Narrative
Disclosure to Summary Compensation Table

There
are no arrangements or plans in which we provide pension, retirement or similar benefits for directors or executive officers. Our directors
and executive officers may receive stock options at the discretion of our board of directors in the future. We do not have any material
bonus or profit-sharing plans pursuant to which cash or non-cash compensation is or may be paid to our directors or executive officers,
except that stock options may be granted at the discretion of our board of directors from time to time. We have no plans or arrangements
in respect of remuneration received or that may be received by our executive officers to compensate such officers in the event of termination
of employment (as a result of resignation, retirement, change of control) or a change of responsibilities following a change of control.

Stock
Option Grants

We
have not granted any stock options to our executive officers since our incorporation.

Employment
Agreements

Our
Chief Executive Officer, Chin Chee Seong, and our Chief Investment Officer, Seah Kok Wah, signed employment agreement on April 01, 2021
while our Chief Financial Officer, Tan Hock Chye, signed employment agreement on July 01, 2021. On October 31, 2022, Mr. Seah Kok Wah
resigned as Chief Investment Officer of the Company.

Compensation
Discussion and Analysis

Director
Compensation

During
our fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, we provided monthly compensation to our independent non-executive directors, including Mr. Louis
Ramesh Ruben for $500 and Mr. Cheah Kok Hoong for $500. All the independent non-executive directors are also the members of audit committee.

Executive
Compensation Philosophy

Our
Board of Directors determines the compensation given to our executive officers in their sole determination. Our Board of Directors reserves
the right to pay our executive or any future executives a salary, and/or issue them shares of common stock in consideration for services
rendered and/or to award incentive bonuses which are linked to our performance, as well as to the individual executive officer’s
performance. This package may also include long-term stock-based compensation to certain executives, which is intended to align the performance
of our executives with our long-term business strategies. Additionally, while our Board of Directors has not granted any performance
base stock options to date, the Board of Directors reserves the right to grant such options in the future, if the Board in its sole determination
believes such grants would be in the best interests of the Company.

Incentive
Bonus

The
Board of Directors may grant incentive bonuses to our executive officer and/or future executive officers in its sole discretion, if the
Board of Directors believes such bonuses are in the Company’s best interest, after analyzing our current business objectives and
growth, if any, and the amount of revenue we are able to generate each month, which revenue is a direct result of the actions and ability
of such executives.

Long-term,
Stock Based Compensation

In
order to attract, retain and motivate executive talent necessary to support the Company’s long-term business strategy we may award
our executive and any future executives with long-term, stock-based compensation in the future, at the sole discretion of our Board of
Directors, which we do not currently have any immediate plans to award.

  27  

ITEM
12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

As
of December 31, 2022, the Company has 92,519,843 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, which number of issued and outstanding
shares of common stock have been used throughout this report.

The
following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2022 certain information with regard to the record and beneficial ownership of the Company’s
common stock by (i) each person known to the Company to be the record or beneficial owner of more than 5% of the Company’s common
stock, (ii) each director of the Company, (iii) each of the named executive officers, and (iv) all executive officers and directors of
the Company as a group:

  Name and Address of Beneficial Owner                                                                             
  Executive Officers and Directors                                                                                 
  Chin Chee Seong,                                                           20,100,000        21.73        21.73  
  Seah Kok Wah,                                                              20,005,000        21.62        21.62  
  Cheah Kok Hoong                                                                     -            -            -  
  Louis Ramesh Ruben                                                                400      0.00043      0.00043  
  Tan Hock Chye                                                               1,000,000         1.08         1.08  
  All of executive officers and director as a group                          41,105,400        44.43        44.43  
  5% or greater shareholders (excluding officers/directors)                                                        
  Greenpro Asia Strategic SPC 1                                              29,200,000        31.56        31.56  
  STVC Talent Sdn Bhd 2                                                       8,831,800         9.55         9.55  

1

2

Beneficial
ownership has been determined in accordance with Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act. Under this rule, certain shares may be deemed to
be beneficially owned by more than one person (if, for example, persons share the power to vote or the power to dispose of the shares).
In addition, shares are deemed to be beneficially owned by a person if the person has the right to acquire shares (for example, upon
exercise of a n option or warrant) within 60 days of the date as of which the information is provided.
In computing the percentage ownership of any person, the amount of shares is deemed to include the amount of shares beneficially owned
by such person by reason of such acquisition rights. As a result, the percentage of outstanding shares of any person as shown in the
following table does not necessarily reflect the person’s actual voting power at any particular date.

  (1)      Beneficial                                                                                                                                  
  (2)      Based                                                                                                                                       

  28  

ITEM
13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

On
April 2, 2018, the Company issued 100,000 shares of restricted common stock, with a par value of $0.0001 per share, to Mr. Chin Chee
Seong for initial working capital of $10. Mr. Chin Chee Seong is Chief Executive Officer, President, Secretary, and Treasurer of the
Company. He is also a member of our Board of Directors.

On
April 2, 2018 Mr. Seah Kok Wah was appointed Chief Investment Officer of the Company and was subsequently appointed as Director on March
13, 2019. On October 31, 2022, Mr. Seah resigned as Chief Investment Officer of the Company.

On
May 2, 2018, we, “the Company” acquired 100% of the equity interests in SEATech Ventures Corp (herein referred as the “Malaysia
Company”), a company incorporated in Labuan, Malaysia.

On
December 21, 2018, SEATech Ventures Corp, a Malaysia Company acquired SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited (herein referred as the “Hong
Kong Company”), a company incorporated in Hong Kong.

On
May 14, 2018, the Company issued 20,000,000 shares of restricted common stock to both Mr. Chin Chee Seong and Mr. Seah Kok Wah, with
a par value of $0.0001 per share, for total additional working capital of $4,000.

On
August 7, 2018, the Company issued 10,000,000 shares of restricted common stock to Greenpro Venture Capital Limited, with a par value
of $0.0001 per share, for additional working capital of $1,000. Greenpro Venture Capital Limited is owned by Greenpro Capital Corp. The
controlling shareholders of Greenpro Capital Corp. are Mr. Lee Chong Kuang and Mr. Loke Che Chan.

On
August 8, 2018, the Company issued 30,000,000 shares of restricted common stock to Greenpro Asia Strategic SPC, with a par value of $0.0001
per share, for additional working capital of $3,000. Greenpro Asia Strategic SPC- Greenpro Asia Strategic Fund SP is owned and controlled
by GC Investment Management Limited.

On
August 27, 2018, the Company issued 10,000,000 shares of restricted common stock to STVC Talent Sdn Bhd, with a par value of $0.0001
per share, for additional working capital of $1,000. Mr. Wang Sze Yao @ Wang Ming Way is the sole officer, director and controlling shareholder
of STVC Talent Sdn. Bhd.

Greenpro
Venture Capital Limited is owned by Greenpro Capital Corp. The controlling shareholders of Greenpro Capital Corp. are Lee Chong Kuang
and Loke Che Chan.

During
the period ended December 31, 2018 the Company paid $60,000 to Greenpro Financial Consulting Limited for professional services.

For
the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company paid $158,720 to Greenpro Financial Consulting Limited for professional services and cost
of providing corporate development advisory services to ICT and technology-based companies.

For
the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company paid $233,400 to Greenpro Financial Consulting Limited for professional services and cost
of providing corporate development advisory services to ICT and technology-based companies.

For
the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company paid $307,700 Greenpro Financial Consulting Limited for professional services and cost
of providing corporate development advisory services to ICT and technology-based companies.

For
the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company paid $18,242 to Asia UBS Global Limited for professional services and $366,300 to Greenpro
Financial Consulting Limited for the cost of providing corporate development advisory services to ICT and technology-based companies.

RELATED
PARTY TRANSACTIONS

For
the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 the Company has following transactions with related parties:

                               For the year ended                   For the year ended               
                               December 31, 2022                    December 31, 2021                
                                                                                                     
                               (Audited)                            (Audited)                        
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Company Secretary Fees:                                                                            
  - Related party A            $                         9,242      $                         8,138  
  Professional Fees:                                                                                 
  - Related party A            $                         9,000      $                         9,280  
  Sales                                                                                              
  - Related party A            $                             -      $                        11,640  
  - Related party B                                          -                              147,400  
  - Related party C                                    280,000                              104,200  
  - Related party D                                    160,000                              104,200  
  - Related party E                                     87,089                                    -  
  Cost of Sales                                                                                      
  - Related party A            $                       366,300      $                       307,700  
  Total                        $                       911,631      $                       692,558  

The
related party A, through its wholly owned subsidiaries is a 34.06% shareholder of the Company.

Related
party B represents company where the Company owns 13.64% interest in the company.

Related
party C represents company where the Company owns 14.76% interest in the company.

Related
party D represents company where the Company owns 14.99% interest in the company.

Related party E represents one of the corporate shareholders, owns 2.46% interest in the Company.

Review,
Approval and Ratification of Related Party Transactions

Given
our small size and limited financial resources, we have not adopted formal policies and procedures for the review, approval or ratification
of transactions, such as those described above, with our executive officer(s), Director(s) and significant stockholders. We intend to
establish formal policies and procedures in the future, once we have sufficient resources and have appointed additional Directors, so
that such transactions will be subject to the review, approval or ratification of our Board of Directors, or an appropriate committee
thereof. On a moving forward basis, our Directors will continue to approve any related party transaction.

  29  

ITEM
14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

Below
is the aggregate amount of fees billed for professional services rendered by our principal accountants with respect to our last two fiscal
years.

                          For the Year Ended                  For the Year Ended              
                          December 31, 2022                   December 31, 2021               
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Audit fees              $                       12,000      $                       10,000  
  Audit related fees                               7,500                               7,500  
  Tax fees                                             -                               2,500  
  Total                   $                       19,500      $                       20,000  

The
category of “Audit fees” includes fees for our annual audit, and services rendered in connection with regulatory filings
with the SEC, such as the issuance of comfort letters and consents.

The
category of “Audit-related fees” includes quarterly reviews, employee benefit plan audits, internal control reviews and accounting
consultation.

All
of the professional services rendered by principal accountants for the audit of our annual financial statements that are normally provided
by the accountant in connection with statutory and regulatory filings or engagements for last two fiscal years were approved by our board
of directors.

  30  

PART
IV

ITEM
15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)
Financial Statements

The
following are filed as part of this report:

Financial
Statements

The
following financial statements of SEATech Ventures Corp. and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm are presented in
the “F” pages of this Report:

                                                               Page    
  Index                                                        F-1     
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm      F-2     
  Financial                                                            
  Consolidated Balance Sheets                                  F-3     
  Consolidated Statements of Operations                        F-4     
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity              F-5     
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                        F-6     
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                   F-7     

(b)
Exhibits

The
following exhibits are filed or “furnished” herewith:

  3.1           Articles of Incorporation**                                                 
  3.2           Bylaws**                                                                    
  31.1          Rule                                                                        
  31.2          Rule 13(a)-14(a)/15(d)-14(a) Certification of principal financial officer*  
  32.1          Section                                                                     
  32.2          Section 1350 Certification of principal financial officer*                  
  101. INS      Inline                                                                      
  101. SCH      Inline                                                                      
  101. CAL      Inline                                                                      
  101. DEF      Inline                                                                      
  101. LAB      Inline                                                                      
  101. PRE      Inline                                                                      
  104           Cover                                                                       

*
Filed herewith.

**
As filed in the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 Amendment No. 2 (File No. 333-230479) on May 30,
2019.

  31  

SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                         SEATECH                                                
                         (Name                                                  
  Date:                  By:                 /s/                                
                         Title:              Chief                              
                                             President,                         

  Date:                  By:         /s/ TAN HOCK CHYE  
  December 26, 2023                                     
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                         Title:      Chief              

  32  

INDEX
TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                    Page    
  Financial                                                                 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm           F-2     
  Consolidated Balance Sheets                                       F-3     
  Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss      F-4     
  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity        F-5     
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                             F-6     
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                        F-7     

  F-1  

REPORT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The
Board of Directors and Stockholders of

SEATech
Ventures Corp.

11-05
& 11-06, Tower A, Avenue 3 Vertical Business Suite,

Jalan
Kerinchi, Bangsar South, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

Opinion
on the Financial Statements

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of SEATech Ventures Corp. (the ‘Company’) as of December 31, 2022
and 2021, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
for the each of two years in the year ended of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial
statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
Company as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of two years in the year ended
December 31, 2022 and 2021, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility
of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our
audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“PCAOB”)
and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable
rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards
of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform,
an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits, we are required to obtain an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.

Our audits included performing procedures to assess
the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond
to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

Going
Concern

The financial statements have been prepared assuming
that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements, the Company had incurred a net
loss of $94,157 during the year, had an accumulated deficit of $594,080 and negative operating cash flows of $59,529 as of December 31,
2022. These factors raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans regarding those
matters also are described in Note 2. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this
uncertainty.

Critical
Audit Matters

Critical
audit matters are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be
communicated to those charged with governance that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements
and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgements. We determined that there are no critical matters.

  /s/                                               
  JP                                                
  We                                                
  JP                                                

  F-2  

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS

AS
OF DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

(Audited)

                                                                                                                                                                              2022                                   2021                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                              (Audited)                              (Audited)                 
                                                                                                                                                                              As of December 31,                                               
                                                                                                                                                                              2022                                   2021                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                                                              (Audited)                              (Audited)                 
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  ASSETS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
  CURRENT ASSETS                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
  Account receivable                                                                                                                                                          $                         120,000      $                      -  
  Deposits paid, prepayments and other receivables                                                                                                                                                            -                         1,650  
  Amount due from a related party                                                                                                                                                                             -                         3,093  
  Amount due from corporate shareholder of a subsidiary                                                                                                                                                       -                         1,920  
  Amount due from related party                                                                                                                                                                               -                         1,920  
  Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                                             136,193                       192,286  
  Total current assets                                                                                                                                                                                  256,193                       198,949  
  NON-CURRENT ASSETS                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  Investment in other companies                                                                                                                                               $                           5,065      $                  5,265  
  Total non-current assets                                                                                                                                                                                5,065                         5,265  
  TOTAL ASSETS                                                                                                                                                                $                         261,258      $                204,214  
  LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  CURRENT LIABILITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Account payable                                                                                                                                                             $                          96,000      $                      -  
  Other payables and accrued liabilities                                                                                                                                                                 57,372                        33,394  
  Amount due to a corporate shareholder                                                                                                                                                                  33,000                             -  
  Total current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                             186,372                        33,394  
  TOTAL LIABILITIES                                                                                                                                                           $                         186,372      $                 33,394  
  STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  Preferred shares, $ 0.0001 par value; 200,000,000 shares authorized; None issued and outstanding                                                                            $                               -      $                      -  
  Common stock, $ 0.0001 par value, 600,000,000 shares authorized, 92,519,843 and 92,519,843 shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 respectively                                  9,252                         9,252  
  Additional paid-in capital                                                                                                                                                                            659,958                       659,958  
  Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                                                                                                                                    ( 244                         ( 125  
  Accumulated deficit                                                                                                                                                         $                       ( 594,080      $              ( 499,923  
  TOTAL SEATECH VENTURES CORP. STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY                                                                                                                           $                          74,886      $                169,162  
  NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST                                                                                                                                                                                    -                         1,658  
  TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY                                                                                                                                                  $                          74,886      $                170,820  
  TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY                                                                                                                                  $                         261,258      $                204,214  

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

  F-3  

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS

FOR
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

(Audited)

                                                                                For the year ended                      For the year ended                  
                                                                                December 31, 2022                       December 31, 2021                   
                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                (Audited)                               (Audited)                           
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  REVENUE                                                                       $                          548,095      $                          383,240  
  COST OF REVENUE                                                                                        ( 454,053                               ( 307,700  
  GROSS PROFIT                                                                  $                           94,042      $                           75,540  
  OTHER INCOME                                                                                               1,936                                   1,546  
  SELLING AND DISTRIBUTION EXPENSES                                                                        ( 7,613                                 ( 3,079  
  GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES                                                                    ( 182,522                               ( 175,657  
  LOSS BEFORE INCOME TAX                                                        $                         ( 94,157      $                        ( 101,650  
  INCOME TAXES PROVISION                                                                                         -                                       -  
  NET LOSS                                                                                                ( 94,157                               ( 101,650  
  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS                                                                                                                                  
  Foreign exchange translation loss                                                                          ( 119                                    ( 12  
  COMPREHENSIVE LOSS                                                            $                         ( 94,276      $                        ( 101,662  
  NET LOSS ATTRIBUTABLE TO:                                                                                                                                 
  Shareholders                                                                                            ( 94,157                               ( 101,386  
  Non-controlling interests                                                                                      -                                   ( 264  
  NET LOSS FOR THE YEAR                                                                                   ( 94,157                               ( 101,650  
  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS ATTRIBUTABLE TO:                                                                                                                 
  Shareholders                                                                                               ( 119                                     ( 3  
  Non-controlling interests                                                                                      -                                     ( 9  
  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS FOR THE YEAR                                                                      ( 119                                    ( 12  
  Net loss per share- Basic and diluted (cent)                                                              ( 0.09                                  ( 0.11  
  Weighted average number of common shares outstanding - Basic and diluted                              92,519,843                              92,519,843  

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

  F-4  

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

FOR
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

(Audited)

 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Balance                                                                               92,519,867      9,252      659,958      ( 122      ( 398,537      -              270,551  
  Shares                                                                                ( 24            -          -            -          -              -                    -  
  Acquisition                                                                                                                   -          -              1,931            1,931  
  Foreign                                                                               -               -          -            ( 3        -              ( 9               ( 12  
  Net                                                                                   -               -          -            -          ( 101,386      ( 264        ( 101,650  
  Balance                                                                               92,519,843      9,252      659,958      ( 125      ( 499,923      1,658          170,820  
  Balance                                                                               92,519,843      9,252      659,958      ( 125      ( 499,923      1,658          170,820  
  Step                                                                                                                          -          -              ( 1,658        ( 1,658  
  Foreign                                                                               -               -          -            ( 119      -              -                ( 119  
  Net                                                                                   -               -          -            -          ( 94,157       -             ( 94,157  
  Balance                                                                               92,519,843      9,252      659,958      ( 244      ( 594,080      -               74,886  
  Balance                                                                               92,519,843      9,252      659,958      ( 244      ( 594,080      -               74,886  

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements

  F-5  

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

FOR
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”))

(Audited)

                                                                                   For the year ended                     For                               
                                                                                   December 31, 2022                      the year ended                    
                                                                                                                          December 31, 2021                 
                                                                                   (Audited)                                                                
                                                                                                                          (Audited)                         
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:                                                                                                                     
  Net loss                                                                         $                       ( 94,157       $                      ( 101,650  
  Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in operating activities:                                                                               
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:                                                                                                              
  Accounts receivable                                                                                      ( 120,000                               170,800  
  Account payable                                                                                          96,000                                ( 159,800  
  Amount due from corporate shareholder of a subsidiary                                                    -                                       ( 1,920  
  Amount due from a related company                                                                        -                                       ( 3,093  
  Deposits paid, prepayments and other receivables                                                         1,650                                     ( 413  
  Other payables and accrued liabilities                                                                   23,978                                   11,025  
  Amount due to a corporate shareholder                                                                    33,000                                        -  
  Net cash used in operating activities                                                                    ( 59,529                               ( 85,051  
  CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:                                                                                                                      
  Investment in other companies                                                                            -                                       ( 4,250  
  Refund of investment in other companies                                                                  200                                           -  
  Net cash provided by / (used in) investing activities                                                    200                                     ( 4,250  
  CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:                                                                                                                     
  Proceeds from subscription shares of non-controlling interest                                            -                                         1,931  
  Advances from director                                                                                   -                                       ( 1,631  
  Net cash provided by financing activities                                                                -                                           300  
  Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents                                             3,236                                      ( 12  
  Net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                                  ( 56,093                               ( 89,013  
  Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year                                                             192,286                                 281,299  
  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR                                           $                       136,193        $                        192,286  
  SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOWS INFORMATION                                                                                                                       
  Income taxes paid                                                                $                       -              $                              -  
  Interest paid                                                                    $                       -              $                              -  

See
accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

  F-6  

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR
THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

1. ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS BACKGROUND

SEATech
Ventures Corp. (“the Company”) was incorporated on April 2, 2018 under the laws of the state of Nevada.

The
Company, through its subsidiaries, engages in providing business mentoring, nurturing, incubating and corporate development advisory
services to ICT and technology-based companies.

On
May 2, 2018, the Company acquired 100

On
December 21, 2018, SEATech Ventures Corp, the Malaysia Company acquired SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited (herein referred as the “Hong
Kong Company”), a private limited company incorporated in Hong Kong.

On
October 04, 2021, SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited subscribed 60 The Malaysia Company changed its company name to SEATech CVC
Sdn. Bhd. on February 22, 2022. On February 25, 2022, SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited further acquired40% of the equity interests in SEATech
CVC Sdn. Bhd., which in turn owns100% of the equity interests in the Malaysia company.

On
January 03, 2022, SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited acquired 1 share, representing 100

Details
of the Company’s subsidiaries:

SCHEDULE OF COMPANY SUBSIDIARIES

  Company                                                     Place                          Particulars                   Principal                                                                                  
  name                                                        and date of incorporation      of issued capital             activities                                                                                 
  SEATech                                                     Labuan / March                 100 ordinary                  Investment                                                                            100  
  Ventures Corp.                                              12, 2018                       shares of US$1 each           holding                                                                                    
  SEATech                                                     Hong Kong / January 30,        1 ordinary share of HK$1      Business                                                                              100  
  Ventures (HK) Limited                                       2018                                                         mentoring, nurturing and incubation, and corporate development advisory services           
  SEATech                                                     Malaysia / October 04,         20,000 ordinary shares        Dormant                                                                               100  
  CVC Sdn. Bhd. (F.K.A. SEATech Bigorange CVC Sdn. Bhd.)      2021                           of MYR1 each                  company                                                                                    
  SEATech                                                     Malaysia / May 27, 2021        1 ordinary share of MYR1      Provision                                                                             100  
  Ventures Sdn. Bhd.                                                                         each                          of corporate advisory services                                                             
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

SEATECH VENTURES CORP.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

Business
Overview

SEATech
Ventures Corp. is a company providing business mentoring services, nurturing and incubation services relating to client businesses and
corporate development advisory services to entrepreneurs in the broader technology industry, but with a specific focus on the information
and communication technology industry. We will primarily focus our efforts on nurturing ICT entrepreneurs in Asia. Our advisory services
will center on our “ICT Start-Up Mentorship Program”, which is designed to assist tech-based entrepreneurs in solving ICT
industry pain points caused by technical insufficiencies, inappropriate financial modelling and weak strategic positioning within a competitive
environment. The program aims to improve the technical exposure of our clients and to improve their sustainability in the ICT industry
community through a combination of mentorship programs.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The
accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect the application of certain significant accounting policies as described in this
note and elsewhere in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes.

Basis
of presentation

The
consolidated financial statements for SEATech Ventures Corp. and its subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2022 is prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”) and include the accounts
of SEATech Ventures Corp., its wholly owned subsidiaries, SEATech Ventures Corp., SEATech Ventures (HK) Limited, SEATech
CVC Sdn. Bhd.

Basis
of consolidation

The
consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries in which the Company is the primary beneficiary.
All inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation.

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR
THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

Use
of estimates

Management
uses estimates and assumptions in preparing these financial statements in accordance with US GAAP. Those estimates and assumptions affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the balance sheets, and the reported
revenue and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

Revenue
recognition

In
accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic
606, Revenue from Contracts

Revenue
is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of discounts and taxes applicable to the revenue. The
Company derives its revenue from provision of business mentoring, nurturing, incubating and corporate development advisory services to
ICT and technology-based companies.

Cost
of revenue

Cost
of revenue includes the cost of services and product in providing business mentoring, nurturing, incubating and corporate development
advisory services.

Investments

Investments
in equity securities

The
Company accounts for its investments that represent less than 20 Financial Instruments - Overall: Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities 5,065 5,265

Accounts receivable

Accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount
less an allowance for any uncollectible accounts. Management reviews the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts on an ongoing
basis, using historical collection trends and aging of receivables. Management also periodically evaluates individual customer’s
financial condition, credit history and the current economic conditions to make an adjustment to the allowance when it is considered necessary.
Account balances are charged off against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery
is considered remote.

Cash
and cash equivalents

Cash
and cash equivalents are carried at cost and represent cash on hand, demand deposits placed with banks or other financial institutions
and all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less as of the purchase date of such investments.

Income
taxes

The
provision of income taxes is determined in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 740, “Income Taxes” (“ASC 740”).
Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between
the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
are measured using enacted income tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the periods in which those temporary differences are
expected to be recovered or settled. Any effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income
in the period that includes the enactment date.

ASC
740 prescribes a comprehensive model for how companies should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in their financial statements
uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return. Under ASC 740, tax positions must initially be recognized in the
financial statements when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination by the tax authorities. Such tax
positions must initially and subsequently be measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of
being realized upon ultimate settlement with the tax authority assuming full knowledge of the position and relevant facts.

Going
concern

The
accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement
of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. As reflected in the accompanying financial statements, for the year
ended December 31, 2022, the Company incurred a net loss of $ 94,157 594,080 59,529

The
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon improving its profitability and the continuing financial support
from its Chief Executive Officer cum shareholder. Management believes the existing shareholders or external financing will provide the additional cash to
meet the Company’s obligations as they become due. No assurance can be given that any future financing, if needed, will be available
or, if available, that it will be on terms that are satisfactory to the Company. Even if the Company is able to obtain additional financing,
if needed, it may contain undue restrictions on its operations, in the case of debt financing, or cause substantial dilution for its
stockholders, in the case of equity financing.

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR
THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

Net
income/(loss) per share

The
Company calculates net loss per share in accordance with ASC Topic 260 “ Earnings per share

Foreign
currencies translation

The
reporting currency of the Company and its subsidiaries in Labuan and Hong Kong, are United States Dollars (“US$”), while
its subsidiaries in Malaysia, maintains the books and record in Ringgit Malaysia (“MYR”), being the primary currency of the
economic environment in which these entities operate.

Transactions
denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing
at the dates of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are translated
into the functional currency using the applicable exchange rates at the balance sheet dates. The resulting exchange differences are recorded
in the statements of operations.

In
general, for consolidation purposes, assets and liabilities of its subsidiary whose functional currency is not the US$ are translated
into US$, in accordance with ASC Topic 830-30, “ Translation of Financial Statement

Translation
of amounts from RM into US$1 and HK$ into US$1 has been made at the following exchange rates for the respective periods:

SCHEDULE OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES TRANSLATION EXCHANGE RATE

                                             As of and for the year ended                      
                                                                                               
                                                             December 31,                      
                                                                     2022                      
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Year-end RM : US$1 exchange rate                                             4.40      4.17  
  Year-average RM : US$1 exchange rate                                         4.40      4.14  
  Year-end HK$: US$1 exchange rate                                             7.81      7.80  
  Year-average HK$ : US$1 exchange rate                                        7.83      7.77  

Related
parties

Parties,
which can be a corporation or individual, are considered to be related if the Company has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control
the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial and operating decisions. Companies are also
considered to be related if they are subject to common control or common significant influence.

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR
THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

Fair
value of financial instruments:

The
carrying value of the Company’s financial instruments: cash and cash equivalents, subscription receivables, prepayment and deposits,
accounts payable, and other payables and accrued liabilities approximate at their fair values because of the short-term nature of these
financial instruments.

The
Company also follows the guidance of the ASC Topic 820-10, “ Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures

  Level                                                                                                                                  
  Level                                                                                                                                  
  Level                                                                                                                                  

Recent
accounting pronouncements

The
Company has reviewed all recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements and do not believe the future adoption of
any such pronouncements may be expected to cause a material impact on its financial condition or the results of its operations.

In
May 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-05, which is an update to ASU Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic
326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which introduced the expected credit losses methodology for the measurement
of credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost basis, replacing the previous incurred loss methodology. The amendments
in Update 2016-13 added Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, and made several consequential amendments to the Codification.
The amendments in this Update address those stakeholders’ concerns by providing an option to irrevocably elect the fair value option
for certain financial assets previously measured at amortized cost basis. For those entities, the targeted transition relief will increase
comparability of financial statement information by providing an option to align measurement methodologies for similar financial assets.
Furthermore, the targeted transition relief also may reduce the costs for some entities to comply with the amendments in Update 2016-13
while still providing financial statement users with decision-useful information. In November 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-10,
which to update the effective date of ASU No. 2016-13 for private companies, not-for-profit organizations and certain smaller reporting
companies applying for credit losses, leases, and hedging standard. The new effective date for these preparers is for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2022. ASU 2019-05 is effective for the Company for annual and interim reporting periods beginning January 1, 2023
as the Company is qualified as a smaller reporting company. The Company is currently evaluating the impact ASU 2019-05 may have on its
consolidated financial statements.

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR
THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

3. COMMON STOCK

On
April 2, 2018, the founder of the Company, Mr. Chin Chee Seong purchased 100,000 0.0001 10

On
May 14, 2018, the Company issued 20,000,000 0.0001 4,000

On
August 7, 2018, the Company issued 10,000,000 0.0001 1,000

On
August 8, 2018, the Company issued 30,000,000 0.0001 3,000

On
August 27, 2018, the Company issued 10,000,000 0.0001 1,000

On
September 7, 2018, the Company sold shares to 2 shareholders, of whom reside in Malaysia. A total of 750,000 0.10 75,000

On
September 12, 2018, the Company sold shares to a shareholder, of whom reside in Malaysia. A total of 466,667 0.15 70,000

In
between September 21, 2018 and November 29, 2018, the Company sold shares to 44 shareholders, of whom reside in Malaysia. A total of 860,000 0.20 172,000

From
June 12, 2019 to May 4, 2020, the company issued 343,200 1.00

As
of December 31, 2022, SEATech Ventures Corp. has an issued and outstanding common share of 92,519,843

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR
THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

4. ACCOUNT RECEIVABLE

SCHEDULE
OF ACCOUNT RECEIVABLE

                                            As of      As of              
                                                                          
                                December 31, 2022      December 31, 2021  
                                                       (Audited)          
                                        (Audited)                         
  Account receivable                     $120,000      $                  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Total account receivable               $120,000      $                  

The account receivable represents receivable amount
from a company where the Company owns14.76% interest, which is trade in nature and subject to normal trade term.

5. AMOUNT DUE FROM A RELATED PARTY

The
amount due is unsecured, interest free and has no fixed terms of repayment.

6. AMOUNT DUE FROM CORPORATE SHAREHOLDER OF A SUBSIDIARY

The
amount due is unsecured, interest free and has no fixed terms of repayment.

7. INVESTMENT IN OTHER COMPANIES

SCHEDULE OF INVESTMENTS

                                           As of                             As of                         
                                           December 31, 2022                 December 31, 2021             
  AsiaFIN Holdings Corp 1                                         1,015                             1,015  
  Pentaip Technology Inc. 2                                           -                               200  
  Angkasa-X Holdings Corp. 3                                      1,300                             1,300  
  JOCOM Holdings Corp. 4                                            850                               850  
  catTHIS Holdings Corp. 5                                        1,900                             1,900  
  Total investment in other companies      $                      5,065      $                      5,265  

   1      On December 24,                                                                                                                              
          2019, the Company has invested in AsiaFIN Holdings Corp. during the private placement stage. AsiaFIN Holdings Corp. is a company providing   
          business technology solutions to its clients. SEATech Ventures Corp. also provides corporate development, mentoring, and incubation service  
          to AsiaFIN Holdings Corp. The investment in AsiaFIN Holdings Corp. is a strategic investment of the Company and the Company’s efforts        
          on nurturing and providing collaborating and networking opportunities to ICT entrepreneurs across Asia. The investment is also aligning      
          with the Company’s focus on the ICT industry. As of December 31, 2022, the Company acquired 13.64% interest in AsiaFIN Holdings              
          Corp.                                                                                                                                        
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

   2      On January 11,                                                                                                                                
          2021, the Company has invested in Pentaip Technology Inc. during the private placement stage. Pentaip Technology Inc. is a company providing  
          wealth management services with integration of Artificial Intelligence (AI) by using mathematical algorithms to make investment decisions     
          with no human supervision. SEATech Ventures Corp. also provides corporate development, mentoring, and incubation services to Pentaip          
          Technology Inc. The investment in Pentaip Technology Inc. is a strategic investment of the Company. Subsequently on January 7, 2022,          
          the Company withdrew its investment in Pentaip Technology Inc. and the fund invested was being refunded to the Company.                       
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

   3      On February 5,                                                                                                                               
          2021, the Company has invested in Angkasa-X Holdings Corp. during the private placement stage. Angkasa-X Holdings Corp. is a company         
          focuses on research and development and commercializes on intellectual property design for communication satellites. SEATech Ventures        
          Corp. also provides corporate development, mentoring, and incubation services to Angkasa-X Holdings Corp. The investment in Angkasa-X        
          Holdings Corp. is a strategic investment of the Company. As of December 31, 2022, the Company acquired 5.68% interest in Angkasa-X Holdings  
          Corp.                                                                                                                                        
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

   4      On June 1, 2021,                                                                                                                              
          the Company has invested in JOCOM Holdings Corp. during the private placement stage. JOCOM Holdings Corp. is a company focuses on m-commerce  
          (Mobile commerce) platform specialized in online groceries and shopping. SEATech Ventures Corp. also provides corporate development,          
          mentoring, and incubation services to JOCOM Holdings Corp. The investment in JOCOM Holdings Corp. is a strategic investment of the Company.   
          As of December 31, 2022, the Company acquired 14.76% interest in JOCOM Holdings Corp.                                                         
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

   5      On August 30, 2021,                                                                                                                        
          the Company has invested in catTHIS Holdings Corp. during the private placement stage. catTHIS Holdings Corp. is a company that providing  
          digital marketing service by using technologies such as mobile application known as “catTHIS App”. catTHIS App serve as a                  
          marketing tool which provides free digital catalog management platform that gives its users the ability to upload and share PDF catalogs   
          anywhere and from any device. SEATech Ventures Corp. also provides corporate development, mentoring, and incubation services to catTHIS    
          Holdings Corp. The investment in catTHIS Holdings Corp. is a strategic investment of the company. As of December 31, 2022, the Company     
          acquired 14.99% interest in catTHIS Holdings Corp.                                                                                         
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

8. ACCOUNT PAYABLE

SCHEDULE
OF ACCOUNT PAYABLE

                                         As of      As of              
                                                                       
                             December 31, 2022      December 31, 2021  
                                     (Audited)      (Audited)          
  Account payable                      $96,000      $                  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Total account payable                $96,000      $                  

The account payable represents payable to a wholly
owned subsidiary of a corporate shareholder which is trade in nature and subject to normal trade term.

9. OTHER PAYABLES AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES

SCHEDULE OF OTHER PAYABLES AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES

                                              As of                              As of                          
                                              December 31, 2022                  December 31, 2021              
  Accrued audit fees                          $                      19,203      $                      26,486  
  Accrued professional fees                                           1,541                              5,664  
  Accrued expenses                                                   36,628                              1,244  
  Total payables and accrued liabilities      $                      57,372      $                      33,394  

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR
THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

10. AMOUNT DUE TO A CORPORATE SHAREHOLDER

The amount due to a corporate shareholder represents amount payable for the refund of sponsorship for events concluded during the
financial year, which is unsecured,
interest free and payable on demand.

11. INCOME TAXES

For
the year ended December 31, 2022 and year ended December 31, 2021, the local (United States) and foreign components of (loss) / profit
before income taxes were comprised of the following:

SCHEDULE OF (LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAXES

                               For the year ended                    For the year ended                 
                               December 31, 2022                     December 31, 2021                  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Tax jurisdictions from:                                                                               
  - Local                      $                       ( 58,780      $                        ( 45,151  
  - Foreign, representing                                                                               
  Labuan                                               ( 52,009                               ( 50,456  
  Hong Kong                                              19,165                                ( 5,379  
  Malaysia                                              ( 2,533                                  ( 664  
  Loss before income tax       $                       ( 94,157      $                       ( 101,650  

The
provision for income taxes consisted of the following:

SCHEDULE OF PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

                          For the year ended      For the year ended  
                          December 31, 2022       December 31, 2021   
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Current:                                                            
  - Local                 $                       $                   
  - Foreign                                                           
  Deferred:                                                           
  - Local                                                             
  - Foreign                                                           
  Income tax expense      $                       $                   

The
effective tax rate in the periods presented is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad
range of income tax rates. The Company has subsidiaries that operate in various countries: United States, Malaysia and Hong Kong that
are subject to taxes in the jurisdictions in which they operate, as follows:

United
States of America

The
Company is registered in the State of Nevada and is subject to the tax laws of the United States of America. As of December 31, 2022,
the operations in the United States of America incurred $ 393,386 80 314,709

Labuan

Under
the current laws of the Labuan, SEATech Ventures Corp. is governed under the Labuan Business Activity Act, 1990. The tax charge for such
company is based on 3

Hong
Kong

SEATech
Ventures Corp. is subject to Hong Kong Profits Tax, which is charged at the statutory income tax rate of 16.5

Malaysia

SEATech
CVC Sdn. Bhd. and SEATech Ventures Sdn. Bhd. are subject to Malaysia Corporate Tax, which is charged at the statutory income tax rate
range from 17 24

SEATECH
VENTURES CORP.

NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR
THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 AND 2021

(Currency
expressed in United States Dollars (“US$”), except for number of shares)

12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

As
of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Company has no

13. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

For
the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 the Company has following transactions with related parties:

SCHEDULE OF RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

                               For the year ended                   For the year ended               
                               December 31, 2022                    December 31, 2021                
                                                                                                     
                               (Audited)                            (Audited)                        
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Company Secretary Fees:                                                                            
  - Related party A            $                         9,242      $                         8,138  
  Professional Fees:                                                                                 
  - Related party A            $                         9,000      $                         9,280  
  Sales                                                                                              
  - Related party A            $                             -      $                        11,640  
  - Related party B                                          -                              147,400  
  - Related party C                                    280,000                              104,200  
  - Related party D                                    160,000                              104,200  
  - Related party E                                     87,089                                    -  
  Cost of Sales                                                                                      
  - Related party A            $                       366,300      $                       307,700  
  Total                        $                       911,631      $                       692,558  

The
related party A, through its wholly owned subsidiaries is a 34.06

Related
party B represents company where the Company owns 13.64

Related
party C represents company where the Company owns 14.76

Related
party D represents company where the Company owns 14.99

Related
party E represents one of the corporate shareholders, owns 2.46

14. CONCENTRATIONS OF RISKS

(a)
Major customers

For
the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the customers who accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s revenues and its accounts
receivable balance at year-end are presented as follows:

SCHEDULE OF CONCENTRATION OF RISK

                  For the year ended December 31                                                                
                                            2022          2021                      2022                        
                                        Revenues                                    Accounts Receivable, Trade  
  Customer A                                  $-      $147,400       -      38      $                           
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Customer B                            $280,000      $104,200      51      27      $                           
  Customer C                            $160,000      $104,200      29      27      $                           
  Customer D                             $87,089            $-      17       -      $                           
                                        $527,089      $355,800      97      92      $                           

(b)
Major vendors

For
the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the vendors who accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s purchases and its accounts
payable balance at year-end are presented as follows:

  For the year ended December 31                                                                                                                    
  2022                                             2021                   2022                                  2022                                
  Purchases                                                               Percentage of Purchases               Account Payable, Trade              
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  $                                   366,300      $         307,700                                   100      $                           96,000  
  $                                   366,300      $         307,700                                   100      $                           96,000  

(c)
Credit risk

Financial
instruments that are potentially subject to credit risk consist principally of accounts receivable. The Company believes the concentration
of credit risk in its trade receivables is substantially mitigated by its ongoing credit evaluation process and relatively short collection
terms. The Company does not generally require collateral from customers. The Company evaluates the need for an allowance for doubtful
accounts based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends and other information.

15. SEGMENT INFORMATION

ASC
280, “Segment Reporting” establishes standards for reporting information about operating segments on a basis consistent with
the Company’s internal organization structure as well as information about services categories, business segments and major customers
in financial statements. In accordance with the “Segment Reporting” Topic of the ASC, the Company’s chief operating
decision maker has been identified as the Chief Executive Officer and President, who reviews operating results to make decisions about
allocating resources and assessing performance for the entire Company. Existing guidance, which is based on a management approach to
segment reporting, establishes requirements to report selected segment information quarterly and to report annually entity-wide disclosures
about products and services, major customers, and the countries in which the entity holds material assets and reports revenue. All material
operating units qualify for aggregation under “Segment Reporting” due to their similar customer base and similarities in
economic characteristics; nature of products and services; and procurement, manufacturing and distribution processes.

The
Company had no inter-segment sales for the years presented. Summarized financial information concerning the Company’s reportable
segments is shown as below:

SCHEDULE OF REPORTABLE SEGMENTS

By
Geography:

                           United States                             Malaysia                    Hong Kong                     Total                 
                           For the year ended December 31, 2022                                                                                      
                           United States                             Malaysia                    Hong Kong                     Total                 
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Revenues                 $                                         $               90,230      $                457,865      $            548,095  
  Cost of revenues                                                                 ( 87,753                     ( 366,300                 ( 454,053  
  Net (loss) / income                                                              ( 54,542                        19,165                  ( 94,157  
  Total assets             $                                         $              118,329      $                142,919      $            261,258  

                         United States                                           Malaysia                    Hong Kong                                
                         For the year ended December 31, 2021                                                                                         
                         United States                                           Malaysia                    Hong Kong                                
  Revenues               $                                         -             $             -             $                383,240        383,240  
  Cost of revenues                                                 -                           -                            ( 307,700      ( 307,700  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net loss                                                         ( 45,151                    ( 51,120                       ( 5,379      ( 101,650  
  Net income (loss)                                                ( 45,151                    ( 51,120                       ( 5,379      ( 101,650  
  Total assets           $                                         10            $             100,486       $                103,718        204,214  

*Revenues
and costs are attributed to countries based on the location of customers.

16. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

In
accordance with ASC Topic 855, “ Subsequent Events

  F-16
