UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

_____________

FORM 10-K

_____________

(Mark One)

  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

For the fiscal year ended October 31, 2023

OR

  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

For the transition period from to

Commission file number: 001-39561

_____________

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

_____________

Delaware

(State or Other Jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

2710 Camino Del Sol

Oxnard California

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)

95-3847744

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

93030

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code: ( 805 981-3650

_____________

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

  Title of each class                           Trading Symbol(s)      Name of each exchange on which registered  
  Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share      AVO                    NASDAQ Global Select Market                
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☐ No

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

  Large accelerated filer      Accelerated filer          
  Non-accelerated filer        Smaller reporting company  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Emerging growth company                                 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. Yes ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

As of April 30, 2023, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $ 483

As of December 1, 2023, the registrant had 70,729,717

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Certain sections of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the 2024 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

FORM 10-K

FISCAL YEAR 2023

  PART I                                                                                                                              
  Item 1.       Business                                                                                                           1  
  Item 1A.      Risk Factors                                                                                                       4  
  Item 1B.      Unresolved Staff Comments                                                                                         16  
  Item 2.       Properties                                                                                                        16  
  Item 3.       Legal Proceedings                                                                                                 17  
  Item 4.       Mine Safety Disclosures                                                                                           17  
  PART II                                                                                                                             
  Item 5.       Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities      17  
  Item 6.       Reserved                                                                                                          19  
  Item 7.       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations                             19  
  Item 7A.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk                                                        30  
  Item 8.       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                                                       31  
  Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure                              31  
  Item 9A.      Controls and Procedures                                                                                           31  
  Item 9B.      Other Information                                                                                                 32  
  Item 9C.      Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections                                               32  
  PART III                                                                                                                            
  Item 10.      Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance                                                            32  
  Item 11.      Executive Compensation                                                                                            33  
  Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters                    33  
  Item 13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence                                         33  
  Item 14.      Principal Accountant Fees and Services                                                                            33  
  PART IV                                                                                                                             
  Item 15.      Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules                                                                         33  
  Item 16.      Form 10-K Summary                                                                                                 35  
                Signatures                                                                                                        36  

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as “may”, “will”, “should”, “expects”, “plans”, 
“anticipates”, “could”, “intends”, “target”, “projects”, “contemplates”, “believes”, “estimates”, “predicts”, “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these words or other similar terms or expressions that concern our expectations, strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or 
achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We believe that these factors include, but are not limited to, the following:

• Risks related to our business, including: limitations regarding the supply of fruit, either through purchasing or growing; fluctuations in the market price of fruit; increasing competition; risks associated with doing business internationally, including Mexican and Peruvian economic, political and/or societal conditions; inflationary pressures; establishment of sales channels and geographic markets; loss of one or more of our largest customers; general economic conditions or downturns; supply 
chain failures or disruptions; disruption to the supply of reliable and cost-effective transportation; failure to recruit or retain employees, poor employee relations, and/or ineffective organizational structure; inherent farming risks, including climate change; seasonality in operating results; failures associated with information technology infrastructure, system security and cyber risks; new and changing privacy laws and our compliance with such laws; food safety events and recalls; failure 
to comply with laws and regulations; changes to trade policy and/or export/import laws and regulations; risks from business acquisitions, if any; lack of or failure of infrastructure; material litigation or governmental inquiries/actions; failure to maintain or protect our brand; changes in tax rates or international tax legislation; risks associated with global conflicts; and inability to accurately forecast future performance.

• Risks related to our common stock, including: the viability of an active, liquid, and orderly market for our common stock; volatility in the trading price of our common stock; concentration of control in our executive officers, and directors over matters submitted to stockholders for approval; limited sources of capital appreciation; significant costs associated with being a public company and the allocation of significant management resources thereto; reliance on analyst reports; failure to 
maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting; restrictions on takeover attempts in our charter documents and under Delaware law; and the selection of Delaware as the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders.

• Risks related to restrictive covenants under our credit facility, which could affect our flexibility to fund ongoing operations, uses of capital and strategic initiatives, and, if we are unable to maintain compliance with such covenants, lead to significant challenges in meeting our liquidity requirements and acceleration of our debt.

We have based the forward-looking statements contained in this report primarily on our current expectations and projections about future events and trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, business strategy and financial needs. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report. These
risks are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report include additional factors that could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Furthermore, new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements contained in this report. We cannot assure you that the results, events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or 
occur, and actual results, events or circumstances could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.

In addition, statements that “we believe” and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this report, and while we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant 
information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements.

You should read this report, including documents that we reference and exhibits that have been filed, in this report and have filed as exhibits to this report, with the understanding that our actual future results, levels of activity, performance and achievements may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements.

The forward-looking statements made in this report relate only to events as of the date on which such statements are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report or to conform such statements to actual results or revised expectations, except as required by law.

This annual report may also include trademarks, tradenames and service marks that are the property of the Company and also certain trademarks, tradenames and service marks that are the property of other organizations. Solely for convenience, trademarks and tradenames referred to in this annual report appear without the ® and ™ symbols, but those references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights, or that the 
applicable owner will not assert its rights, to these trademarks and tradenames.

We maintain a website at www.missionproduce.com, to which we regularly post copies of our press releases as well as additional information about us. Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after being electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information contained in our website does not constitute a part of this report or our other filings with the SEC.

PART I

Item 1. Business

Overview

Mission Produce, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Mission Produce” or the “Company,” “Registrant,” or “Issuer,” and generally referred to as “we” or “us”), is a global leader in the avocado industry. The Company’s expertise lies in the farming, packaging, marketing and distribution of avocados to food retailers, distributors and produce wholesalers worldwide. The Company procures avocados principally from California, Mexico and Peru. Through our various operating facilities, we
grow, sort, pack, bag and ripen avocados and a small amount of other fruits for distribution to domestic and international markets. We report our results of operations in three operating segments which are also reportable segments:

• Marketing and Distribution sources fruit from growers and then distributes fruit through our global distribution network;

•International Farming owns and operates orchards from which the vast majority of fruit produced is sold to our Marketing and Distribution segment. The segment’s farming activities range from cultivating early-stage plantings to harvesting from mature trees. It also earns service revenues for packing and processing fruit for both our Blueberries segment, as well as for third-party producers of other crops. Operations are principally located in Peru, with smaller operations emerging in other 
areas of Latin America.

•Blueberries is a farming operation that cultivates blueberry plants in Peru. The entity farms high-quality varieties of blueberries, and has plants in various stages of development, from seedling to mature.

Products and services

We primarily source, produce, pack and distribute avocados. The avocados we sell are primarily of the Hass variety. We sort and pack avocados and match their specifications to respective customer requirements. We sell both pre-ripe and ripened avocados, and with our network of ripening facilities, we can adjust the level of ripeness to the needs of our customers. Our custom ripening programs provide customers with the option of ordering avocados at five different stages of ripeness - hard, 
preconditioned, breaking, firm-ripe and ripe - which are delivered on specifically tailored schedules according to stage of ripeness. In 2021, we also began marketing mangos on a limited scale. Mangos are complementary to avocados as they typically have opposite seasons, allowing us to leverage and maintain absorption of our distribution network.

We also provide value-added services including ripening, bagging, custom packaging, logistical management, and quality assurance. In addition, we provide our customers with merchandising and promotional support, insights on market trends and hands-on training to assist with their retail sales of our avocados. For example, we operate category management, merchandising and packaging programs, such as our “Avo Intel,” “Minis - small but mighty,” “Emeralds in the Rough,” “Ready,” “Size Minded,” 
“Jumbos - more to eat, more to love” and shelf-life extension programs, to promote the sale of avocados that might otherwise be underutilized, to identify ready-to-eat and various size avocados for consumers and to increase shelf life.

In our Blueberries segment, we act as growers. Our exclusive supply agreement with an exclusive distributor allows us to utilize our existing infrastructure and workforce in Peru during complementary periods between avocado harvest and processing seasons.

Customers

We primarily market avocados to retail, wholesale and foodservice customers. We focus on delivering quality avocados on time and within customer specifications. We forecast avocado sourcing costs for the season for our own production, which enables us to enter into fixed price contracts with customers for a season without bearing pricing risk from spot market purchases. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our customers and focus instead on building strong, long-term relationships 
based on product quality and specifications, on-time delivery and customer support and service.

Supply chain and distribution network

Our global distribution network includes strategically located forward distribution centers across North America, China, Europe, and the U.K. equipped to offer value-added services such as ripening, bagging, custom packaging and logistical management. Our network of distribution facilities puts us in close proximity to our customers, allowing us to provide fruit based on customer timing, specification, and volume needs. Within the United States, we can deliver avocados within approximately eight
hours or less.

Before being forwarded to distribution centers, avocados are sorted and packed at one of our four state-of-the-art packing facilities in Mexico, Peru, and California, or by co-packers in various locations. Our packing facilities are located in close proximity to

growers, allowing us to control the logistics of the supply chain from tree to packing, to distribution. Transportation logistics are managed across truck, ocean, air and rail platforms, depending on origin and end markets.

Competition

We compete based on a variety of factors, including the appearance, taste, size, shelf life and overall quality of our fruit, price and distribution terms, the timeliness of our deliveries to customers and the availability of our products. The avocado and fresh produce business is highly competitive, and the effect of competition is intensified because our products are perishable. Marketing competitors include other distributors, producers, and other smaller packers and marketers. Farming 
competitors include other farming businesses of all sizes, from large-scale businesses and cooperatives, to individual farms.

Resources

We source avocados primarily from Mexico, Peru, and California, as well as Colombia, Guatemala, South Africa, Chile, and other locations. Our diverse sourcing network mitigates the impact of potential geographical or grower-specific supply disruptions and optimizes our ability to fulfill year-round global demand.

Third-party growers

We have relationships with thousands of third-party growers. Our large scale and long track record of working with growers contributes to strong existing relationships and facilitates new relationships with third-party growers. We do not have exclusive sourcing contracts with growers.

Farming

In addition to purchasing avocados from third-party growers, we have vertically integrated farming operations where we grow avocados on owned or leased land. In Peru, we own farmland with developed orchards that are in various stages of maturity. Since fiscal 2020, we have progressively planted new orchards in Guatemala on land under long-term leases, to diversify our vertical integration sourcing strategy. We also invest in a joint venture in Colombia that owns land that is under development. 
After planting, avocado trees begin to produce avocados in approximately three years and typically reach full production in approximately five to seven years, depending on location. We continue to innovate our farming practices to control the quality of our fruit, through various test plots, seed research, and soil analysis.

As of October 31, 2023, our approximate international avocado planted acreage, by age and rounded to the nearest hundred, was as follows:

                    Avocado Acreage by Age                                                   
  Country           0-3 years                              4-6 years                         
  Peru                                          2,400      800            6,400       9,600  
  Guatemala                                     1,800      —                          1,800  
  Colombia (1)                                  1,500      200                        1,700  
  Total                                         5,700                     6,400      13,100  

(1) Acreage in Colombia is farmed through a joint venture.

We are also involved in the farming of other fruits on a limited scale. We have planted mango orchards in Peru to enable us to realize synergies from labor and facility management during the avocado off-season. We have also invested in a blueberry farming joint venture, Moruga. While we do not market blueberries, our investment in Moruga further allows us to leverage labor and facility investments in Peru.

Intellectual property

We have registered or submitted registrations for certain trademarks with the United Stated Patent and Trademark Office and with the appropriate bodies in international jurisdictions, including The MISSION & TOWER DESIGN® and MISSION PRODUCE™. In addition, we have several issued patents and copyrights that are not material to our business at this time.

Seasonality

The total sales and sales price of avocados fluctuates throughout the year due to variations in supply of avocados based on geographic location. For example, in California and Peru, the harvest of avocados typically peaks between April and September. In Mexico, avocados are harvested year-round, but the harvest typically peaks between December through March. Although these

geographical differences may lead to fluctuations in the purchase price of avocados, our diverse geographical avocado growth and production capabilities help us mitigate volatility in our access to supply of avocados. As a result of the volumes sourced from our farming operations in Peru, we realize a greater portion of our gross profit during the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. Sales in our Blueberries segment are concentrated in the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year in
alignment with the Peruvian blueberry harvest season, which typically runs from July through January.

People

As of October 31, 2023, we had approximately 3,300 employees located worldwide, of which, 1,800 were located in Peru, 600 were located in Mexico, 500 were located in the U.S., and 400 were located in other regions such as Guatemala, the U.K., Europe and Canada. Our headcount in Peru is inclusive of our Moruga blueberry operation. Due to the cyclical nature of avocado production, we also hire temporary and seasonal workers on our farms in Peru and packing houses in the U.S. and Mexico to meet our
needs.

We seek to provide an attractive workplace for our people by adhering to and demonstrating our values: FIRST - fun, innovative, reliable, successful, and trustworthy. We are actively involved in supporting our surrounding communities, and we contribute to important causes, including those focused on children, families, and agriculture education.

Regulation and Industry Associations

Our business is impacted by general and industry-specific government regulations and requirements. Below is a summary of some of the significant industry or commodity-related regulations that impact our business.

As an agricultural producer and marketer of consumable products, our operations are subject to extensive regulation by various federal government agencies, including the FDA, the USDA and the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), as well as state and local agencies, with respect to product attributes, packing, labeling, storage and distribution. Under various statutes and regulations, these agencies prescribe requirements and establish standards for safety, purity and labeling. In addition, 
advertising of our products is subject to regulation by the FTC, and our operations are subject to health and safety regulations, including those issued under the Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”). Our packing facilities and products are subject to periodic inspection by federal, state and local authorities, including FDA review of our compliance with the Food Safety Modernization Act ("FSMA") at all of our U.S. facilities. In addition, our operations in Mexico are subject to Mexican 
regulations, our operations in Peru are subject to Peruvian regulations, and our operations in Europe and the U.K. are subject o applicable regulations for those regions.

We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern, among other matters, the treatment, handling, storage, use and disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and waste, including herbicides, fertilizers, pesticides and other agricultural products, the remediation of contaminated properties and climate change.

In the U.S., the Hass Avocado Board was established by the USDA to promote the sale of Hass variety avocados. This board provides a basis for unified funding of promotional activities based on an assessment on all avocados sold in the U.S. marketplace. The California Avocado Commission, which receives its funding from California avocado growers, has historically shouldered the promotional and advertising costs supporting avocado sales. We believe that the incremental funding of promotional and 
advertising programs in the U.S. will, in the long term, positively impact average selling prices and will favorably impact our avocado businesses. Similarly, Avocados from Mexico (“AFM”) was formed in 2013 as the marketing arm of the Mexican Hass Avocados Importers Association (“MHAIA”) and the Association of Growers and Packers of Avocados From Mexico (“APEAM”). In Peru, the organization Pro Hass promotes the marketing of high-quality Hass avocados, providing support to the local industry with
technical research, packaging, and production.

Available Information

Our corporate headquarters are located at 2710 Camino Del Sol, Oxnard, California, and our telephone number is (805) 981-3650. Our internet address is www.missionproduce.com. The information on or that can be accessed through our website is not incorporated by reference in this report.

We make available free of charge certain reports and amendments that we file with the SEC, such as our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, our directors’ and officers’ Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing such materials to the SEC on the “Investor relations” section of our website. They are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” before making a decision to purchase or sell shares of our common stock. We cannot assure you that any of the events discussed in the risk factors below will not occur. These risks could have a material and 
adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. If that were to happen, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations or financial condition.

Risks Related to Our Business

Our ability to generate revenues is limited by the supply of fruit and our ability to purchase or grow additional fruit.

Our ability to distribute fruit is limited by our ability to acquire supply from third-party growers and to produce on our own farms. With a limited number of trees on our farms and on the farms from which we purchase, our ability to obtain supply from third parties and adapt to any changes in demand of our product is constrained. If we are unable to purchase sufficient volumes from third-party growers at acceptable prices or demand for our products were to increase in the future, we would need 
additional production capacity, which may take time, whether by purchasing additional fruit from third-party suppliers or by waiting for our younger plants to bear fruit. These purchases may expose us to increases in short-term costs and additional production exposes us to additional long-term operating costs. If supply decreases dramatically, whether as a result of damage to farms, inclement weather, drought, labor issues, or other problems, prices have and could dramatically increase and we 
may not be able to purchase sufficient fruit. The impact of the limited supply and increased prices could decrease our revenues or increase our costs of goods sold, which would harm our business and financial results.

Our profitability is sensitive to fluctuations in market prices of our products which we do not control.

The pricing of fruit we purchase for distribution depends on supply, and excess supply can lead to price competition in our industry. Growing conditions in various parts of the world, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts, wildfires, abnormally warm or cold weather patterns, and freezes, as well as diseases and pests, are primary factors affecting market prices because of their influence on the supply, size, and quality of product.

Pricing also depends on quality. Fresh produce is highly perishable and generally must be brought to market and sold soon after harvest. The selling price received depends on the availability and quality offered by us to customers and what comparable offerings are available in the market generally.

Pricing also depends on demand, and consumer preferences for particular food products are subject to fluctuations over time. Shifts in consumer preferences that impact demand at any given time can result from a number of factors, including dietary trends, price, attention to particular nutritional aspects, concerns regarding the health effects of particular products, attention given to product sourcing practices, economic factors, sustainability and ethical issues associated with supply chain 
practices, and general public perception of food safety risks. Consumer demand for our products also may be impacted by any public commentary that consumers may make regarding our products, as well as by changes in the level of advertising or promotional support that we employ or that are employed by relevant industry groups or third parties. If consumer preferences trend negatively with respect to our products, our sales volumes may decline as a result.

We are subject to increasing competition that may adversely affect our operating results.

The market for our products is highly competitive. Competition for the purchase of our products from suppliers and the sale of our products to our customers primarily comes from other distributors. If we are unable to consistently pay growers a competitive price for their fruit, these growers may choose to have their fruit marketed by alternative distributors. If we are unable to offer attractive prices or consistent supply to retail and wholesale customers, they may choose to purchase from 
other companies. Such competition may adversely affect our volumes and prices, which would harm our business and results of operations.

We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally and our current international operations are subject to a number of inherent risks.

We conduct a substantial amount of business internationally, including: doing business with growers and customers who are located outside the United States; purchasing fruit from growers and packers in Mexico and other countries; owning or leasing thousands of acres of farms in other countries, operating packing facilities in Peru and Mexico, having a farming joint venture in Colombia and a minority investment in South Africa, operating sales and distribution offices in China and in Europe, and 
selling products to foreign customers. We also continually explore sourcing, distribution and sales opportunities in additional countries. Conducting business internationally has exposed, and continues to expose, us to a variety of risks, including:

• Changes in legal or regulatory requirements affecting foreign investment, taxes, labor, imports and exports or changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products, repatriate profits to the United States or operate our foreign-located facilities;

• increased demands on our limited resources created by our operations may constrain the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and restrict our ability to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management, technicians, scientists and other personnel;

• difficulties associated with staffing and managing foreign operations;

• multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tariffs and tax laws, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses;

• potential failure by us or third parties we rely on to obtain and/or maintain regulatory approvals for the sale or use of our products in various countries;

• difficulties in managing global operations;

• logistics and regulations associated with shipping products, including infrastructure conditions and transportation delays;

• financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations;

• reduced protection for intellectual property rights, or lack of them in certain jurisdictions;

• economic weakness or instability, economic recessions, political and economic instability, including corruption, wars and regional or global conflicts, terrorism and political unrest, outbreak of disease, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions;

• failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or other similar laws, including its books and records provisions and its anti-bribery provisions, by maintaining accurate information and control over sales activities and distributors’ activities;

• failure to comply with restrictions on the ability of companies to do business in foreign countries;

• restrictive U.S. and foreign governmental actions, such as restrictions on transfers of funds and trade protection measures, including import/export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs, or unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;

• compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws;

• taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;

• currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenue, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country;

• workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;

• production shortages or disruptions in supply, labor, transportation and trading; and

• business and shipping interruptions resulting from pandemics and natural or other disasters including earthquakes, volcanic activity, hurricanes, floods and fires.

We have encountered many of these risks, which has affected our international expansion and operations and, consequently, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our business is also impacted by the negotiation and implementation of free trade agreements between the United States and other countries, particularly in Mexico, which is the largest source of our supply of avocados. Such agreements can reduce or increase barriers to international trade and thus affect the cost of conducting business internationally, including the cost of purchasing avocados.

Inflationary pressures and increases in costs of commodities or other products we use in our business, such as fuel, packing, and paper, could adversely affect our operating results.

The price of various products that we use in packing, shipping, or distributing our products can significantly affect our costs. Fuel and transportation costs are a significant cost component and make up a meaningful portion of the price of much of the fruit that we purchase from growers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to, or to what extent we can, pass on to our customers the increased costs we incur in these respects.

The cost of paper is also significant to us because most of our products are packed in cardboard boxes. As the price of paper increases, our operating income will decrease if we are not able to effectively pass these price increases along to our customers.

We may not have sufficient and established sales channels and geographic markets for growing industry and owned supply or to meet our growth goals.

We may fail to effectively develop an effective customer strategy for our existing customers, or we may fail to establish and grow emerging channels and geographic channels, which may result in reduced profitability and negatively impact financial results. We are also subject to an increasing number of customer requirements and operational requests that affect our costs.

Failure to provide adequate resources or to adopt a customer satisfaction strategy may damage relationships with key customers or subject us to loss of customers.

The loss of one or more of our largest customers, or a reduction in the level of purchases made by these customers, could negatively impact our sales and profits.

Sales to our top 10 customers amounted to approximately 65% of net sales for the year ended October 31, 2023 and 59% of net sales for both years ended October 31, 2022 and 2021. We expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be derived from a relatively small number of customers. We believe these customers make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand, customer service performance, desired inventory levels and other factors that 
may be important to them at the time the purchase decisions are made. Changes in our customers’ strategies or purchasing patterns, including a reduction or increase in the number of suppliers from which they purchase, may adversely affect our sales. Additionally, our customers may face financial or other difficulties which may impact their operations and cause them to reduce their level of purchases from us, which could adversely affect the results of operations. Customers also may respond to 
any price increase that we may implement by reducing their purchases from us, resulting in reduced sales of our products. If sales of our products to one or more of our largest customers are reduced, this reduction may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any bankruptcy or other business disruption involving one of our significant customers also could adversely affect our results of operations.

Mexican economic, political and societal conditions may have an adverse impact on our business.

Mexico is the largest source of our supply of avocados, and our business is affected by developments in that country. Shipments from Mexico to the United States are dependent on the border remaining open to imports, which has closed from time to time. In addition, security institutions in Mexico are under significant stress as a result of organized crime and gang and drug-related violence, which also could affect avocado production and shipments. This situation creates potential risks that 
affect a large part of our sourcing in Mexico and would harm our operations if it impacts our facilities or personnel. In addition, Mexican growers strike from time to time to obtain higher prices for their avocados. We cannot provide any assurance that economic conditions or political developments, including any changes to economic policies or the adoption of other reforms proposed by existing or future administrations, in or affecting Mexico will not have a material adverse effect on market 
conditions or our business, results of operations or financial condition.

We are also subject to various legal and regulatory changes impacting labor in Mexico. In November 2020, the President of Mexico signed a reform bill on subcontracting matters to add and repeal various articles of Mexico’s Federal Labor Law, Social Security Law, Law of the National Workers’ Housing Fund Institute, Federal Fiscal Code, Income Tax Law, the Value Added Tax Law, and other laws and regulations. This Reform on Outsourcing bill was later approved and published in the Official Gazette 
of the Federation in April 2021. The bill, amongst other things, prohibits the subcontracting of personnel unless the subcontracted personnel provides services or executes specialized works that are not part of the corporate purpose of economic activity of the beneficiary of the services. In November 2022, the Secretary of Labor and Social Welfare set forth the criteria for subcontracting inspections and noted that cutting, harvesting or picking would be considered the predominant economic 
activity of companies who are engaged in the cultivation, packing, distribution, and export of fruit. Under this interpretation, we may be required to directly employ the avocado harvesting and picking crews in Mexico and may no longer be able to subcontract such personnel. We are analyzing the impact of this on our business and contemplating all avenues available to us to challenge and/or comply with both the bill and the criteria released in November 2022 for inspections. We have challenged 
the legality of the criteria before the Tax Court which has granted a favorable suspension of enforcement. Such suspension was appealed by the defendant authorities, and the Tax Court has ruled in favor of the Company and confirmed the definitive suspension granted to the Company. The Tax Court has also ruled that the ban on subcontracting of cutters, pickers, and harvesters is illegal and does not apply to the Company. An appeal on these grounds can still be made by the defendant authorities. 
If we are unsuccessful in our challenges, if any, or if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties, unfavorable tax and other positions, and/or we may have to employ a significant number of picking and harvesting personnel in Mexico, and we may not have the infrastructure in place to do so in the time period required. This and other impacts from this bill could have a material impact on our operations, business, financial performance, and profitability.

Peruvian economic and political conditions may have an adverse impact on our business.

A significant part of our farming operations are conducted in Peru. Accordingly, our business, financial condition or results of operations are affected by changes in economic or other policies of the Peruvian government or other political, regulatory or economic developments in the country. During the past several decades, Peru has had a succession of regimes with differing policies and programs. Past governments have frequently intervened in the nation’s economy and social structure, and they 
and businesses associated with them also faced money laundering and corruption issues. Among other actions, past governments have imposed controls on prices, exchange rates and local and foreign investments, as well as limitations on imports, have restricted the ability of companies to dismiss employees and have prohibited the remittance of profits to foreign investors.

Because we have significant operations in Peru, political developments and economic conditions, including changes to economic policies or the adoption of other reforms proposed by existing or future administrations, in Peru and/or other factors could have a material adverse effect on market conditions, prices of our securities, our ability to obtain financing and our results of operations and financial condition.

Our performance may be impacted by general economic conditions or an economic downturn.

An overall decline in economic activity could adversely impact our business and financial results. Economic uncertainty, recessions, or inflationary pressures may reduce consumer spending as consumers make decisions on what to include in their food budgets. This could be caused by political unrest, wars or other conflicts, health pandemics or other matters beyond our control. This could also result in a shift in consumer preference. Shifts in consumer spending could result in increased pressure 
from competitors or customers that may require us to increase promotional spending or reduce the prices of some of our products and/or limit our ability to increase or maintain prices, which could lower our revenue and profitability. Instability in financial markets may impact our ability, or increase the cost, to enter into new credit agreements in the future. Additionally, it may weaken the ability of our customers, suppliers, third-party distributors, banks, insurance companies and other 
business partners to perform their obligations in the normal course of business, which could expose us to losses or disrupt the supply of inputs we rely upon to conduct our business. If one or more of our key business partners fail to perform as expected or contracted for any reason, our business could be negatively impacted.

Failure to optimize our supply chain or disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our ability to make, move and sell products in coordination with our suppliers is critical to our success. Our inability to maintain sufficient internal production capacity or our inability to enter into co-packing arrangements on terms that are beneficial to the Company could have an adverse effect on our business. Failure to adequately handle increasing production costs and complexity, turnover of personnel, or production capability and efficiency issues could materially impact our ability to 
cost effectively produce our products and meet customer demand.

Additionally, damage or disruption to our collective production or distribution capabilities resulting from weather, any potential effects of climate change, natural disaster, disease, crop spoilage, fire or explosion, terrorism, wars or regional/global conflicts, pandemics, strikes, repairs or enhancements at our facilities, or other reasons, could impair our ability to produce or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or
to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and may require additional resources to restore our supply chain.

Our ability to serve our customers is a function of reliable and cost-effective transportation. Disruption of the supply of these services and/or significant increases in the cost of these services could impact our operating income.

We use multiple forms of transportation to bring our products to market. They include sea, truck and air-cargo. Transportation costs include ship and truck operating expenses, using chartered refrigerated ships and trucks and container equipment related costs. Disruption to the timely supply or availability of these services or dramatic increases in the cost of these services for any reason including availability of fuel or labor for such services, labor disputes, governmental regulation, or 
governmental restrictions limiting specific forms of transportation could have an adverse effect on our ability to serve our customers and consumers and could have an adverse effect on our financial performance.

In the past, we have experienced increases in transportation costs, decreases in the availability of shipping, and other global supply chain complexities, including labor shortages. Such complexities have and could continue to result in delays in customer shipments which may negatively impact our ability to recover costs, retain or attract customers, and/or sell our product effectively. Significant disruptions could continue to occur and put pressure on transportation and shipping 
infrastructure. The fluctuation in transportation costs cannot always be predicted and there can be no assurances that such costs and/or shipping disruptions will not increase in the future. To the extent that we experience increased costs, we may increase our prices, pass the increase along to customers, or otherwise take actions to offset the impacts. We may not be able to offset increased costs fully or at all, and there can be no assurances that increasing prices will fully mitigate the 
impact of increases, which could adversely impact our results.

We depend on our key personnel and an effective organizational structure to run our business and if we lose the services of any of these individuals, fail to attract and retain additional key personnel, or fail to optimize our organization structure, we may not be able to implement our business strategy or operate our business effectively.

Our future success largely depends on the contributions of our management team, including Stephen Barnard, our CEO. We believe that these individuals’ expertise and knowledge about our industry and their respective fields and their relationships with other individuals in our industry are critical factors to our continued growth and success. Failure or inability of key management team members to deliver on the Company’s strategic goals, execute on action items and plans, and/or operate the 
business in an effective manner may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, We have had departures of members of senior management and other members of senior management could depart the Company. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success also depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.

The operation of our facilities depends on adequate and affordable supply of labor and good labor relations with our employees. Our employees are essential to our operations and our ability to farm, package and/or deliver our products. We are subject to inflationary pressures in labor as well as a tight labor market for recruitment and retention of skilled, short- and long-term labor. If we are unable to attract and retain enough skilled personnel at a reasonable cost, our results may be 
negatively affected.

We and our growers are subject to the risks that are inherent in farming, including those related to climate change.

Our results of operations may be adversely affected by numerous factors over which we have little or no control and that are inherent in farming, including reductions in the market prices for our products, adverse weather including drought, floods, abnormally high or low temperatures or weather patterns, high winds, earthquakes and wildfires. Growing conditions, pest and disease problems and new government regulations regarding farming and the marketing of agricultural products can impose 
additional costs on, or make it more difficult to conduct, our business.

In addition, the timing of harvests from global sourcing regions and the distribution, including transportation, of our products is dependent upon a number of factors, including weather, natural events, and climate change. The potential impact of climate change is uncertain and may vary by geographic region. The possible effects could include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels that could adversely impact our 
costs and business operations and the supply of our products. Our operations also rely on the availability of dependable and efficient transportation services and routes. A disruption in transportation services our routes as a result of climate change may also significantly impact our results of operations.

Legal, regulatory or other market measures to address climate change could negatively affect our business operations. The increasing concern over climate change may result in more regional, federal, foreign and/or global legal and regulatory requirements aimed to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases and/or require extensive disclosure and third-party audits of climate-related data. Recent California legislation and similar or additional legislation or regulation in the future 
increases the requirements that we and our suppliers must undertake to monitor our emissions and improve energy and resource efficiency and will cause us to experience significant increases in costs and expenditure of resources. We may not be able to pass any resulting cost increases to our customers. Furthermore, we may be required to make additional investments of capital to maintain compliance with new laws and regulations. As a result, climate change or increased concern over climate change 
could negatively affect our business or operations.

Due to the seasonality of the business, our revenue and operating results may vary from quarter to quarter and year to year.

Our earnings may be affected by seasonal factors, including:

• the availability, quality and price of fruit;

• the timing and effects of ripening and perishability;

• the ability to process perishable raw materials in a timely manner;

• fixed overhead costs during off-season months at our farms; and

• the impacts on consumer demand based on seasonal and holiday timing.

System security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price.

Our internal computer systems and those of our current and any future partners, contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. System failures, accidents or security breaches can cause interruptions in our operations and can result in a material disruption of our business operations. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate
our information technology security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns, or develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack our programs or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or 
manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, 
production, distribution or other critical functions.

Portions of our information technology infrastructure have and may in the future experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We have experienced difficulties, and may not be successful in the future, with implementing new systems and transitioning data, which have and could cause business disruptions. These difficulties have resulted in and may result in increased costs, 
time consuming and resource-intensive remediation efforts to address issues, and disruption to the business. Such disruptions have and could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other key business processes. We have experienced delays and lower profit from these disruptions and may experience such difficulties in the future. As a result, our financial results, stock price, or reputation have and may be adversely affected.

We are subject to stringent privacy laws, information security laws, regulations, policies and contractual obligations related to data privacy and security and such laws, regulations, policies and contractual obligations affect our business.

In the ordinary course of business, we collect, store, process and transmit confidential business information and certain personal information relating to customers, employees and suppliers. We are subject to data privacy and protection laws and regulations that apply to the collection, transmission, storage and use of personally-identifying information, which among other things, impose certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of personal information. The 
legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve in jurisdictions worldwide, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business. Failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in enforcement action against us, including fines, imprisonment of company officials and public censure, claims for damages by affected individuals, damage to our reputation and loss of 
goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Ongoing efforts to comply with evolving laws and regulations may be costly and require ongoing modifications to our policies, procedures and systems.

Data privacy remains an evolving landscape at both the domestic and international level, with new regulations coming into effect, including, for example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (“CCPA”) and the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, and others. If our or our partners’ or service providers’ privacy or data security measures fail to comply with requirements, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations, enforcement notices requiring us to change the way we 
use personal data and/or fines, as well as compensation claims by affected individuals, negative publicity, reputational harm and a potential loss of business and goodwill.

It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices and our efforts to comply with the evolving data protection rules may be unsuccessful. We must devote significant resources to understanding and complying with this changing landscape. Failure to comply with federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and security of personal information could expose us to penalties under such laws. Any such failure to comply with data 
protection and privacy laws could result in government-imposed fines or orders requiring that we change our practices, claims for damages or other liabilities, regulatory investigations and enforcement action, litigation and significant costs for remediation, any of which could adversely affect our business. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative 
publicity, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.

Food safety events, including instances of food-borne illnesses, could create negative publicity for our customers and adversely affect sales and operating results.

Food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, quality products. However, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness, have occurred with avocados in the past, and could occur in the future. Food safety events experienced by our customers, whether or not they involve our fruit, could adversely affect sales to those customers. In addition, customers who purchase our fruit for their food products could experience 
negative publicity, or experience a significant increase in food costs if there are food safety events. If such customers experience a decline in sales as a result of such food safety event, our results of operations would be adversely affected.

A recall of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may be subject to significant liability claims should the consumption of any of our products cause injury, illness or death.

The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, pathogenic bacteria, substances, chemicals, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with 
all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image.

We are subject to possible changing United States Department of Agriculture and Food and Drug Administration regulations that govern the importation of our products into the United States.

The USDA has established, and continues to modify, regulations governing the importation of our products into the United States, and also limits the countries from which our products may be imported. Our permits that allow us to import foreign-sourced products into the United States generally are contingent on our compliance with these regulations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with existing and modified regulations and are unable to secure import
permits in the future.

The FDA establishes, and continues to modify, regulations governing the distribution of our products, such as the Food Safety Modernization Act, which implements mandatory preventive controls for food facilities and growing operations to comply with mandatory produce safety standards. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with these existing and modified regulations.

Changes to U.S. trade policy, tariff and import/export regulations may adversely affect our operating results.

Changes in U.S. or international social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently conduct our business, as well as any negative sentiment toward the U.S. as a result of such changes, could adversely affect our business. The U.S. has instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that include the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of 
higher tariffs on imports into the U.S., economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries, and other government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we conduct our business.

As a result of policy changes and government proposals, there may be greater restrictions and economic disincentives on international trade. The new tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing trade sanctions on U.S. goods. Such changes have the potential to adversely impact the U.S. economy or sectors thereof, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as
a result, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We are subject to health and safety laws, which restrict our operations and increase our operating costs.

We are required to comply with health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, and in other countries where we do business and/or conduct our operations, including Peru and Mexico, and are subject to periodic inspections by the relevant governmental authorities. These laws and regulations govern, among others, health and safety workplace conditions, including high risk labor and the handling, storage and disposal of chemical and other hazardous substances. Compliance with these laws
and regulations and new or existing regulations that may be applicable to us in the future, restrict our operations and increase our operating costs and could adversely affect our financial results of operations and cash flows.

Compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including laws pertaining to the use of herbicides, fertilizers and pesticides or climate change, or liabilities thereunder, could result in significant costs that adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and reputation.

We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental matters. In particular, our business depends on the use of herbicides, fertilizers, pesticides and other agricultural products and the use and disposal of these products in some jurisdictions are subject to regulation by various agencies. These laws and regulations may require that only certified or professional users apply the product or that certain products only be used in certain 
types of locations. These laws and regulations may also require users to post notices on properties at which products have been or will be applied, notification to individuals in the vicinity that products will be applied in the future, or labeling of certain products or may restrict or ban the use of certain products. We can give no assurance that we can prevent violations of these or other laws and regulations from occurring. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be 
subject to, among other things, substantial penalties or fines, partial or complete cessation of our operations or a ban on the sale of part or all of our products in a jurisdiction. Even if we are able to comply with all such laws and regulations and obtain all necessary registrations and licenses, we cannot guarantee that the herbicides, fertilizers, pesticides or other products we apply, or the manner in which we apply them, will not be alleged to cause injury to the environment, people or 
animals, or that such products will not be restricted or banned in certain circumstances. A decision by a regulatory agency to significantly restrict the use of or ban such products that have traditionally been used in the cultivation of one of our principal products could have an adverse impact on us. Under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA,
undertakes a series of regulatory actions relating to the evaluation and use of pesticides in the food industry. Similar regulations in the EU and Asia govern the pesticide approval and use process. Actions regarding the availability and use of herbicides, fertilizers, pesticides and other agricultural products, the costs of compliance, consequences of non-compliance, remediation costs and liabilities, unfavorable public perceptions of such products or products liability lawsuits could have a 
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and reputation.

There has been a broad range of proposed and promulgated state, national, local and international regulation aimed at reducing the effects of climate change. Such regulations apply or could apply in countries where we conduct operations or have interests or could conduct operations or have interests in the future. In the United States, there is a significant possibility that some form of regulation will be enacted at the federal level to address the effects of climate change. Such regulation 
could take several forms that could result in additional costs in the form of taxes, the restriction of output, investments of capital to maintain compliance with laws and regulations, or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. Climate change regulation continues to evolve, and while it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation, such regulation could have a material effect on our 
business, results of operations, financial position or capital expenditures. To the extent that climate change affects our farms, including their water supply, our ability to grow crops could be harmed.

The acquisition of other businesses could pose risks to our financial condition and results.

We intend to review acquisition and investment prospects that would complement our business. Future acquisitions by us could result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, and increased debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the integration of the acquired operations, diversion of management’s attention to other 
business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience, assumption of liabilities and the potential loss of key

employees of acquired organizations. We may be unable to successfully integrate businesses or the personnel of any business that might be acquired in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. We may also not be able to achieve an attractive return on our investments.

We depend on our infrastructure to have sufficient capacity to handle our business needs.

We have an infrastructure that supports our production and distribution, but if we lose machinery or facilities due to natural disasters, mechanical failures, or other reasons, we may not be able to operate at a sufficient capacity to meet our needs. We will also continue to make investments in existing and new facilities to meet our needs. Any inability to have sufficient facilities, or loss or failure of facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could impact our 
results of operations and our financial condition. In addition, we have invested heavily in our distribution centers and packing facilities. Failure to utilize, manage, and operate such facilities, including preservation and maintenance of machinery and management and resource allocation related to labor, in an effective and efficient manner could cause operational and financial losses.

The efficient management of our operations depends upon our ability to protect our computer systems and network infrastructure against damage from theft, casualties such as fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or other catastrophic events, as well as from internal and external security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms, malware, ransomware, breaches of the algorithms they or their third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect data and other malicious or 
disruptive events. We employ both internal resources and external consultants to conduct auditing and testing for weaknesses in our computer systems and network infrastructure to reduce the likelihood of any cybersecurity incident and have developed a multi-discipline response plan to help ensure that our executives are fully and accurately informed and manage, with the help of content experts, the discovery, investigation and auditing of, and recovery from any cybersecurity incidents. Despite 
these efforts, we can provide no assurance that these measures will successfully prevent all cybersecurity incidents or mitigate losses resulting from a cybersecurity incident.

Available cyber-risk insurance coverage and policy limits may not adequately cover or compensate us in the event of a cybersecurity incident. Our financial performance could be materially adversely affected if our operations are interrupted by a cybersecurity incident from which we are not able to promptly and fully recover, if any cyber-risk insurance is unable to fully address our losses and/or if we become subjected to litigation or regulatory action because of such an incident.

Adverse results in material litigation or governmental inquiries and actions could have an adverse financial impact and an adverse impact on our business and financial condition.

We are involved in various legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business including, among other things, disputes related to employee matters such as our pending class action lawsuits, disputes with respect to vendors or business partners and clients, as well as inquiries or investigations from governmental agencies. Some proceedings against us involve claims that are substantial in amount and could divert management's attention from operations. These proceedings also may result in
substantial monetary damages. Further, the legal actions and government investigations could damage our reputation with investors and adversely affect the trading prices of our securities.

We are subject to extensive government regulation in the jurisdictions in which we do business which can negatively impact our financial condition, results of operation, and cash flows.

We are subject to government regulation in the United States and in the foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business. The application of laws and regulations to our business is sometimes unclear. Compliance with laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in business practices that could result in reduced profitability. If there is a determination that we have failed to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be subject to penalties or sanctions that could
adversely impact our reputation and financial results. Compliance with changes in laws or regulations can result in increased operating costs and require additional, unplanned capital expenditures. Export controls or other regulatory restrictions could prevent us from shipping our products to and from some markets or increase the cost of doing so. Changes in tax laws and regulations and international tax treaties could affect the financial results of our businesses. Increasingly aggressive 
enforcement of anti-bribery and anti-corruption requirements, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act and the China Anti-Unfair Competition Law, could subject us to criminal or civil sanctions if a violation is deemed to have occurred. In addition, we are subject to laws and sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we do business that may prohibit us, or certain of our affiliates, from doing business in certain countries, or restricting
the kind of business that we may conduct.

Further, we cannot guarantee that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents, business partners or that businesses that we acquire would not violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, kickbacks and false claims, pricing, sales and marketing practices, conflicts of interest, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering, and data privacy. Any such 
improper actions or allegations of such acts could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable as a successor for violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire.

Our business depends on a strong and trusted brand, and any failure to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand would have an adverse impact on our business.

Consumer and institutional recognition of the Mission Produce word and design marks and related brands and the association of these brands with our sourcing, production and distribution of fresh avocados, and mangos, are an integral part of our business. The occurrence of any events or rumors that cause consumers and/or institutions to no longer associate these brands with our products and services may materially adversely affect the value of our brand names and demand for our products and 
services.

In addition, certain of our registered trademarks has been opposed, and the registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names that we own or may own in the future may be challenged, infringed, declared generic, or determined to be infringing on or dilutive of other marks. We may not be able to protect our rights in these trademarks and trade names, which we need in order to build name recognition with potential customers. Moreover, third parties have and others may file for registration of 
trademarks similar or identical to our trademarks; if they succeed in registering or developing common law rights in such trademarks, and if we are not successful in challenging such third-party rights, we may not be able to use these trademarks to develop brand recognition of our technologies and products. Furthermore, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our registered 
or unregistered trademarks or trade names. If we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities.

We are subject to taxes in the U.S., Mexico, Peru, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and other countries. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation.

We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), the Servicio de Administración Tributaria in Mexico (“SAT”), the Superintendencia Nacional de Administración Tributaria in Peru (“SUNAT”) and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these 
examinations. If our effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected.

In December 2021, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”), which is an international public policy setting organization comprised of member countries including the U.S., published a proposal for the establishment of a global minimum tax rate of 15% (the “Pillar Two rule”). The OECD has recommended that the Pillar Two rule become effective for fiscal years beginning after January 1, 2024, which is our fiscal 2025. To date, member states are in various stages of 
implementation and the OECD continues to refine technical guidance.

On December 30, 2020, Peru enacted tax law repealing current tax law which provided benefits to agribusiness entities. The new law subjects us to higher Peruvian corporate income tax rates than the rate in effect on the date of repeal of 15%, as follows: 20% for calendar years 2023 to 2024, 25% for calendar years 2025 to 2027, and 29.5% thereafter.

Global conflicts, including those between Russia and Ukraine and the war in the Middle East may adversely affect our business and results of operations.

Given the nature of our business and our global operations, political, economic, and other conditions in foreign countries and regions, including geopolitical risks such as the current conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and the war in the Middle East, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The broader consequences of these conflicts, which may include sanctions, embargoes, regional instability, and geopolitical shifts; transportation bans relating to certain routes, or 
strategic decisions to alter certain routes; potential retaliatory action by governments against companies, including us; increased tensions between the United States and countries in which we operate; and the extent of these conflicts’ effects on our business and results of operations as well as the global economy, cannot be predicted.

Our business is heavily dependent on certain factors and risks such as those we have described in Item 1A that may limit our ability to accurately forecast our future performance and increase the risk of an investment in our common stock.

Our financial results may be significantly affected by variations in pricing on the purchase and sale of fruit and fluctuations in crop sizes and the volume of fruit available from owned and third-party sources. We may not be able to, or we may fail to, appropriately forecast, estimate and predict the significant inputs that impact our financial performance. Any guidance or forward-looking statement regarding future performance is subject to this uncertainty.

Risks Related to Our Common Stock

An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be maintained.

Our common stock began trading on Nasdaq in October 2020, but we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain an active trading market for our common stock. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other businesses or technologies using our shares as 
consideration, which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our growth.

The trading price of the shares of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses.

Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price at which they paid. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by those factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and many others.

Our executive officers and directors, if they choose to act together, have the ability to control or significantly influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. Furthermore, many of our current directors were appointed by our principal stockholders.

Our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, own approximately 39% of our outstanding common stock as of October 31, 2023. Furthermore, many of our current directors were appointed by our principal stockholders. As a result, such persons or their appointees to our Board of Directors, acting together, have the ability to control or significantly influence all matters submitted to our Board of Directors or stockholders for approval, including the appointment of our management, the 
election and removal of directors and approval of any significant transaction, as well as our management and business affairs. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business, even if such a transaction would benefit other 
stockholders.

Because we may not pay any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, may be your sole source of gain.

We have paid cash dividends on our capital stock in the past but cannot guarantee that we will continue to do so in the future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon results of operations, financial condition, any contractual restrictions, our indebtedness, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the 
appreciation of their stock. Shares of our common stock may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares.

We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives.

As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, which require, among other things, that we file with the SEC, annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently adopted by the SEC and Nasdaq to implement provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, impose 
significant requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Further, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC has adopted additional rules and regulations in these areas, such as mandatory “say on pay” voting requirements. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government 
intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, including with respect to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact the manner in which we operate our business in ways we cannot currently anticipate.

The rules and regulations applicable to public companies has and will continue to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming. If these requirements divert the attention of our management and personnel from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The increased costs will decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may require us 
to reduce costs in other areas of our business. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to these requirements. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our board committees or as executive officers.

If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.

The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If no securities or industry analysts commence or continue coverage of our company, the trading price for our stock would be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline. 
If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, interest in our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.

If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting and the trading price of our common stock may decline.

Pursuant to Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, our management is required to report upon the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with the annual report for our fiscal year ending October 31, 2021. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are 
complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. To comply with the requirements of being a reporting company under the Exchange Act, we have implemented additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and hired additional accounting and finance staff. If we or, if required, our auditors are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting 
and the trading price of our common stock may decline.

There could be material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness in our internal control over
financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the 
capital markets.

Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable and may lead to entrenchment of management.

Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of 
our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our Board of Directors. Because our Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. These provisions provide, among other 
things, that:

• our Board of Directors has the exclusive right to expand the size of our Board of Directors and to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors;

• our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving staggered three-year terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our Board of Directors;

• our stockholders may not act by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;

• a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairperson of our Board of Directors, our chief executive officer, president or our Board of Directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;

• our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;

• our Board of Directors may alter provisions of our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval;

• the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors is required to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors;

• stockholders must provide advance notice and additional disclosures in order to nominate individuals for election to the Board of Directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or

deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and

• our Board of Directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer.

Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.

Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.

Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware (or, in the event that the Chancery Court does not have jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware or other state courts of the State of Delaware) shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for: (i) any derivative action, suit or proceeding brought on 
our behalf; (ii) any action, suit or proceeding asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or stockholders owed to us or our stockholders; (iii) any action, suit or proceeding asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our bylaws (as either may be amended from time to time); or (iv) any action, suit or proceeding asserting a claim 
against us governed by the internal affairs doctrine. We believe this provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law by chancellors particularly experienced in resolving corporate disputes, efficient administration of cases on a more expedited schedule relative to other forums and protection against the burdens of multi-forum litigation.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the exclusive forum provision does not apply to suits brought to enforce any liability or duty created by the Exchange Act, the Securities Act or any claim for which the federal courts have exclusive or concurrent jurisdiction. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities 
Act. If any such action is filed in a court other than a court located within the State of Delaware (a “foreign action”) in the name of any stockholder, such stockholder will be deemed to have consented to (a) the personal jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located within the State of Delaware in connection with any action brought in any such court to enforce such actions and (b) having service of process made upon such stockholder in any such action by service upon such stockholder’s 
counsel in the foreign action as agent for such stockholder. Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act of the rules and regulations thereunder, and Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder, and notwithstanding
the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws, compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder may not be waived by our investors. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies’ certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that a court could find these types of provisions to be inapplicable or unenforceable.

This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional 
costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions.

Risks Related to Our Indebtedness

We are subject to a number of restrictive covenants under our credit facility, which could affect our flexibility to fund ongoing operations, uses of capital and strategic initiatives, and, if we are unable to maintain compliance with such covenants, it could lead to significant challenges in meeting our liquidity requirements and acceleration of our debt.

The terms of our credit facility contain a number of restrictive covenants, including customary operating restrictions that limit our ability to engage in such activities as borrowing and making investments, capital expenditures and distributions on our capital stock, and engaging in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales. We are also subject to customary financial covenants, including a leverage ratio and a fixed coverage ratio. These covenants restrict the amount of our borrowings, reducing our
flexibility to fund ongoing operations and strategic initiatives. These borrowing arrangements are described in more detail in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Part II, Item 7 and in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements under Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. Compliance with some of these covenants is based on financial measures derived from our operating results. If economic conditions deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts to our business and operating 
results, such as through reduced customer demand and inflation. A decline in our business could make us unable to maintain compliance with these financial covenants, in which case we may be restricted in how we manage our business and deploy capital, including by limiting our ability to make acquisitions and dispositions and pay dividends. In addition, if we are unable to maintain compliance with our financial

covenants or otherwise breach the covenants that we are subject to under our credit facility, our lenders could demand immediate payment of amounts outstanding and we would need to seek alternate financing sources to pay off such debts and to fund our ongoing operations. Such financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, our term loans are secured by real property, personal property and the capital stock of our subsidiaries. If we cannot repay all amounts that we 
have borrowed under our term loans, our lenders could proceed against our assets.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties

Our principal operating, distribution and packing facilities as of October 31, 2023 were as follows:

  Location                      Type                        Reportable Segment            Owned or Leased  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  North America:                                                                                           
  Laredo, Texas                 Distribution                Marketing & Distribution      Owned            
  Oxnard, California            Distribution, packing       Marketing & Distribution      Owned            
  Swedesboro, New Jersey        Distribution                Marketing & Distribution      Leased           
  Portland, Oregon              Distribution                Marketing & Distribution      Leased           
  Atlanta, Georgia              Distribution                Marketing & Distribution      Leased           
  Denver, Colorado              Distribution                Marketing & Distribution      Leased           
  Chicago, Illinois             Distribution                Marketing & Distribution      Leased           
  Calgary, Alberta, Canada      Distribution                Marketing & Distribution      Leased           
  Dallas, Texas                 Distribution                Marketing & Distribution      Leased           
  Toronto, Ontario, Canada      Distribution                Marketing & Distribution      Leased           
  Oxnard, California            Corporate headquarters      Marketing & Distribution      Leased           
  Other:                                                                                                   
  Dartford, U.K.                Distribution, packing       Marketing & Distribution      Leased           
  Virú, Peru                    Packing                     International Farming         Owned            
  Uruapan, Mexico               Packing                     Marketing & Distribution      Owned            
  Zamora, Mexico                Packing                     Marketing & Distribution      Owned            
  Trujillo, Peru                Administrative              International Farming         Leased           
  Lima, Peru                    Administrative, sales       International Farming         Leased           

We own and lease approximately 15,000 of plantable acres of agricultural land under our farming operations. Our principal farming properties as of October 31, 2023 were as follows:

  Location                   Type      Reportable Segment         Owned or Leased  
  Olmos, Peru                Land      International Farming      Owned            
  Virú, Peru                 Land      International Farming      Owned            
  Santa Rosa, Guatemala      Land      International Farming      Leased           
  Olmos, Peru                Land      Blueberries                Leased           
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

We believe that our facilities are adequate to meet our current needs, and that suitable additional alternative spaces will be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if required. For additional information on leased property, see Note 10 of this annual report on Form 10-K.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

We are from time to time involved in legal proceedings and investigations arising in the ordinary course of business, including those relating to employment matters, relationships with clients and contractors, intellectual property disputes and other business matters.

On April 23, 2020, former Mission Produce, Inc. employees filed a class action lawsuit in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles against us alleging violation of certain wage and labor laws in California, including failure to pay all overtime wages, minimum wage violations, and meal and rest period violations, among others. Additionally, on June 10, 2020, former Mission Produce, Inc. employees filed a class action lawsuit in the Superior Court of the State of
California for the County of Ventura against us alleging similar violations of certain wage and labor laws. The plaintiffs in both cases seek damages primarily consisting of class certification and payment of wages earned and owed, plus other consequential and special damages. While the Company believes that it did not violate any wage or labor laws, it nevertheless decided to settle these class action lawsuits. In May 2021, the plaintiffs in both class action lawsuits and the Company agreed 
preliminarily to a comprehensive settlement to resolve both class action cases for a total of $0.8 million, which the Company recorded as a loss contingency in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income during the three months ended April 30, 2021. The parties executed a stipulation of settlement agreement on such terms in November 2021. This preliminary settlement was approved by the applicable courts in October 2022. In the course of preparing to send
out notices to the settlement class, issues arose regarding the nature and scope of the settlement, specifically with respect to the universe of participants in the settlement class, which the parties were unable to resolve. Plaintiffs filed a motion to enforce compliance with the settlement agreement and the Company filed a cross motion to reform the stipulation of settlement, or in the alternative, to vacate the order of preliminary approval. A hearing before the court was held on this matter 
in July 2023. The court granted Plaintiff’s motion and directed the parties to proceed with the notice procedures to a class that includes a number of participants that the Company does not feel are appropriate to include. The court did not rule on the fairness of the settlement agreement between the parties and stated that this determination would be made at final approval and that the issues raised in the Company’s motion would be considered at that time. The Company requested an appeal of the
ruling and a delay of the mailing of notice to settlement class members, but such request was denied. A final approval hearing date has been set for January 30, 2024.

The outcomes of our legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, subject to significant uncertainties, and if one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts above management’s expectations, the Company’s financial condition and operating results for that period could be materially adversely affected.

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures

None.

PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Market Information

Our common stock has been publicly traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “AVO” since our IPO on October 1, 2020, which was completed at a price to the public of $12.00 per share. Prior to our IPO, there was no public market for our common stock.

Holders of Common Stock

We had 18 shareholders of record of our common stock as of December 1, 2023. This number was derived from our shareholder records and does not include holders of our common stock whose shares are held in the name of various dealers, clearing agencies, banks, brokers and other fiduciaries.

Dividend Policy

We have paid cash dividends on our capital stock in the past but cannot guarantee that we will continue to do so in the future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon

results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, business prospects, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

See Item 12 of Part III of this annual report on Form 10-K for information about our equity compensation plans which is incorporated by reference herein.

Comparative Stock Performance Graph

The following performance graph shows a comparison from October 1, 2020 (the date our common stock commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Market) through October 31, 2023, of the cumulative total return for our common stock, the Nasdaq Composite Index (the annual reports for fiscal years 2021 and 2022 incorrectly labeled the name of the index as Nasdaq Composite Total Return Index) and the Nasdaq US Smart Food & Beverage Total Return Index. The graph assumes $100 was invested on October 1, 2020 
in Mission Produce common stock, or the respective indices, including reinvestment of dividends, with the associated plots indicating the relative performance as of the last day of trading prior to the fiscal year end date.

                                                          October 1, 2020      October 29, 2021      October 31, 2022      October 31, 2023  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Mission Produce, Inc.                                             100.0                 137.6                 120.6                  68.2  
  Nasdaq Composite Index (1)                                        100.0                 136.8                  97.0                 113.5  
  Nasdaq US Smart Food & Beverage Total Return Index                100.0                 121.2                 135.1                 116.0  

(1) The annual reports for fiscal years 2021 and 2022 incorrectly labeled the name of this index as Nasdaq Composite Total Return Index

Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities

None.

Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities

On September 6, 2023, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, which permits the Company to repurchase up to $20 million of shares of the Company’s common stock within 36 months from adoption. The shares may be repurchased from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions in such quantities and at such prices as may be authorized by certain designated officers of the Company. Share repurchases may be made in open market or privately negotiated

transactions and/or pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 trading plans, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, trading restrictions under the Company’s insider trading policy and other relevant factors.

Repurchases by us or our “affiliated purchasers” (as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) of the Exchange Act) of registered equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2023 were as follows:

  Period                      Total number of shares purchased                  Average price paid per share                            Approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plan            
                                                                                                                                        (in millions)                                                                          
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  September 6 - 30, 2023                                            21,539      $                                 9.55      21,539      $                                                                                19.8  
  October 1- 31, 2023                                               45,639      $                                 9.09      45,639      $                                                                                19.4  

10b-5(1) Trading Plans

Luis A. Gonzalez director Rule 10b5-1 1,651,500 July 14, 2023

Jay A. Pack director Rule 10b5-1 150,000 October 10, 2023

Item 6. Reserved

Not applicable.

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements based upon our current beliefs, plans and expectations that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various 
factors. Please refer to the section of this report under the heading “Forward Looking Statements.”

Overview

We are a world leader in sourcing, producing and distributing Hass avocados, serving retail, wholesale and foodservice customers. We source, produce, pack and distribute avocados and a small amount of other fruits to our customers and provide value-added services including ripening, bagging, custom packaging and logistical management. In addition, we provide our customers with merchandising and promotional support, insights on market trends and training designed to increase their retail avocado 
sales.

Consolidation of VIE

On May 1, 2022, a reconsideration event occurred related to Moruga S.A.C., a holding company with one wholly owned subsidiary, Blueberries Peru, S.A.C. (collectively referred to as “Moruga”), an entity for which we have a 60% equity ownership interest. Moruga was previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting, where investments are stated at initial cost and adjusted for subsequent additional investments and our proportionate share of earnings or losses and distributions. As a 
result of the reconsideration event, we concluded that Moruga is a variable interest entity (“VIE”), and that the Company is the primary

beneficiary with a controlling financial interest. Based on this conclusion, Moruga was prospectively consolidated on May 1, 2022. For more details on Moruga, refer to Note 3 to the financial statements in this annual report.

Reportable segments

We have three operating segments which are also reportable segments. Our reportable segments are presented based on how information is used by our CEO, who is the chief operating decision maker, to measure performance and allocate resources. After the consolidation of Moruga on May 1, 2022, the information used by the CEO was expanded to include the results of Moruga, and as such, we determined our reportable segments to be:

•Marketing and Distribution. Our Marketing and Distribution reportable segment sources fruit from growers and then distributes the fruit through our global distribution network.

•International Farming. International Farming owns and operates orchards from which the vast majority of fruit produced is sold to our Marketing and Distribution segment. The segment’s farming activities range from cultivating early-stage plantings to harvesting from mature trees. It also earns service revenues for packing and processing fruit for both our Blueberries segment, as well as for third-party producers of other crops. Operations are principally located in Peru, with smaller operations
emerging in other areas of Latin America.

• Blueberries. The Blueberries segment represents the results of Moruga, subsequent to its consolidation on May 1, 2022. Moruga’s farming activities include cultivating early-stage blueberry plantings and harvesting mature bushes. Substantially all blueberries produced are sold to a single distributor under an exclusive marketing agreement.

Recent business developments

In April 2023, the Marketing and Distribution segment opened a 102,000-square-foot state-of-the-art ripening, packing and forward distribution center in Dartford, United Kingdom. Strategically located with direct access to major international ports and transportation networks, the facility is expected to strengthen our international footprint and optimize product distribution to the Company’s customer base in the U.K.

Regulatory developments

In December 2021, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”), which is an international public policy setting organization comprised of member countries including the U.S., published a proposal for the establishment of a global minimum tax rate of 15% (the “Pillar Two rule”). The OECD has recommended that the Pillar Two rule become effective for fiscal years beginning after January 1, 2024, which is our fiscal 2025. To date, member states are in various stages of 
implementation and the OECD continues to refine technical guidance. We are closely monitoring developments of the Pillar Two rule and are currently evaluating the potential impact in each of the countries we operate in.

Results of Operations

The operating results of our businesses are significantly impacted by the price and volume of fruit we farm, source and distribute. In addition, our results have been, and will continue to be, affected by quarterly and annual fluctuations due to a number of factors, including but not limited to: pests and disease; weather patterns; changes in demand by consumers; food safety advisories; the timing of the receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant customer orders; the gain or loss of 
significant customers; the availability, quality and price of raw materials; the utilization of capacity at our various locations; and general economic conditions.

Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency of our most significant subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar and the majority of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. A significant portion of our purchases of avocados are denominated in the Mexican Peso and a significant portion of our growing and harvesting costs are denominated in Peruvian Soles. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and these local currencies usually do not have a significant 
impact on our gross margin because the impact affects our pricing by comparable amounts. Our margin exposure to exchange rate fluctuations is short-term in nature, as our sales price commitments are generally limited to less than one month and orders can primarily be serviced with procured inventory. Over longer periods of time, we believe that the impact exchange rate fluctuations will have on our cost of goods sold will largely be passed on to our customers in the form of higher or lower 
prices.

                                                                   Years ended October 31,                                                                 
                                                                                      2023                         2022                 2021               
  (In millions, except percentages)                                                 Dollar      %                Dollar          %      Dollar          %  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net sales                                                                              $      953.9 100.0           $      100.0      $           100.0  
  Cost of sales                                                                      870.6      91.3              956.1       91.4      767.2        86.0  
  Gross profit                                                                        83.3      8.7                89.8        8.6      124.5        14.0  
  Selling, general and administrative expenses                                        76.4      8.0                77.5        7.4      63.6          7.1  
  Goodwill impairment                                                                    —      —                  49.5        4.7      —               —  
  Operating income (loss)                                                              6.9      0.7              (37.2)      (3.6)      60.9          6.8  
  Interest expense                                                                  (11.6)      (1.2)             (5.5)      (0.5)      (3.7)       (0.4)  
  Equity method income                                                                 4.0      0.4                 5.1        0.5      7.5           0.8  
  Remeasurement gain on acquisition of equity method investee                            —      —                   2.0        0.2      —               —  
  Other (expense) income, net                                                        (0.2)      —                   4.4        0.4      1.3           0.1  
  (Loss) income before income taxes                                                  (0.9)      (0.1)            (31.2)      (3.0)      66.0          7.4  
  Provision for income taxes                                                           2.2      0.2                 3.7        0.4      21.1          2.4  
  Net (loss) income                                                                  (3.1)      (0.3)            (34.9)      (3.3)      44.9          5.0  
  Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest                                   (0.3)      —                 (0.3)          —      —               —  
  Net (loss) income attributable to Mission Produce                                      $      (2.8) (0.3)           $      (3.3)      $             5.0  

Net sales

Our net sales are generated predominantly from the shipment of fresh avocados to retail, wholesale and foodservice customers worldwide. Our net sales are affected by numerous factors, including the balance between the supply of and demand for our produce and competition from other fresh produce companies. Our net sales are also dependent on our ability to supply a consistent volume and quality of fresh produce to the markets we serve.

                                  Years ended October 31,                                                         
  (In millions)                   2023                                    2022                   2021             
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net sales:                                                                                                      
  Marketing and Distribution      $                            889.9      $         1,016.1      $         872.0  
  International Farming           11.6                                    19.1                   19.7             
  Blueberries                     52.4                                    10.7                   —                
  Total net sales                 $                            953.9      $         1,045.9      $         891.7  

Net sales decreased $92.0 million or 9% in fiscal year 2023 compared to the previous year, primarily due to a 24.0% decrease in average per-unit avocado sales prices, partially offset by increases in avocado volume sold of 12.0%. Price decreases and higher avocado volume sold were driven by higher industry supply out of Mexico in the current year as compared to limited supply out of Mexico in the previous year. Net sales were favorably affected by the full-year impact of consolidating revenue 
from our Blueberries segment.

Net sales increased $154.2 million or 17% in fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year, primarily due to a 28% increase in average per-unit avocado sales prices, partially offset by decreases in avocado volume sold of 11%. Price increases were due to lower industry supply out of Mexico for much of the fiscal year, as well as inflationary pressures. Lower avocado volume sold was primarily driven by lower Mexican supply. Domestic volumes declined at a lower rate relative to export markets, 
demonstrating the resiliency of demand for avocados amid higher price points in the U.S. market.

Gross profit

Cost of sales is composed primarily of avocado procurement costs from independent growers and packers, logistics costs, packaging costs, labor, costs associated with cultivation (the cost of growing crops), harvesting and depreciation. Avocado procurement costs from third-party suppliers can vary significantly between and within fiscal years and correlate closely with market prices for avocados. While we have long-standing relationships with our growers and packers, we predominantly purchase 
fruit on a daily basis at market rates. As such, the cost to procure products from independent growers can have a significant impact on our costs.

Logistics costs include land and sea transportation and expenses related to port facilities and distribution centers. Land transportation costs consist primarily of third-party trucking services to support North American distribution, while sea transportation cost consists primarily of third-party shipping of refrigerated containers from supply markets in South and Central America to demand markets in North America, Europe and Asia. Fuel prices as well as variations in containerboard prices, 
which affect the cost of boxes and other packaging materials, impact our product cost and our profit margins. Variations in the production yields, and other input costs also affect our cost of sales.

In general, changes in our volume of products sold can have a disproportionate effect on our gross profit. Within any particular year, a significant portion of our cost of products are fixed. Accordingly, higher volumes produced on company-owned farms directly reduce the average cost per pound of fruit grown on company owned orchards, while lower volumes directly increase the average cost per pound of fruit grown on company owned orchards. Likewise, higher volumes processed through packing and 
distribution facilities directly reduce the average overhead cost per unit of fruit handled, while lower volumes directly increase the average overhead cost per unit of fruit handled.

Gross profit percentage will fluctuate based upon per-unit sales price levels in relation to per-unit costs. Margin is primarily managed on a per-unit basis in our Marketing & Distribution segment, which can lead to movement in gross profit percentage when sales prices fluctuate.

                                                 Years ended October 31,                                                     
                                                 2023                                   2022                2021             
  Gross profit (in millions)                     $                            83.3      $         89.8      $         124.5  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Gross profit as a percentage of net sales      8.7                                    8.6                 14.0             

Gross profit decreased $6.5 million in fiscal year 2023 compared to the previous year to $83.3 million, and gross profit percentage increased by 10 basis points to 8.7% of revenue. The decrease in gross profit was concentrated in our International Farming segment and driven by lower pricing on avocados sold from Company-owned farms. Lower pricing conditions were driven by higher worldwide supply of avocados, driven by a stronger Mexican crop, combined with quality issues and a compressed 
Peruvian harvest season brought about by El Niño-related weather events. Gross profit percentage remained flat as higher volume of avocados sold and improved per-unit margin at lower average sales prices in our Marketing & Distribution segment and higher volume of blueberries sold by Blueberries segment largely offset the negative impact from our International Farming segment.

Gross profit decreased $34.7 million in fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year to $89.8 million, and gross profit percentage decreased by 536 basis points to 8.6% of revenue. Within our Marketing and Distribution segment, the decreases were primarily driven by the impact of lower avocado volume sold, as well as temporary and unforeseen operational challenges created by the ERP implementation, which limited our ability to effectively manage our supply chain during the first quarter of 
2022. Within our International Farming segment, we experienced gross profit decreases primarily due to inflationary cost pressures impacting ocean freight costs, packaging costs, and farming input costs, partially offset by increased avocado production at our farms.

Selling, general and administrative expenses

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses primarily include the costs associated with selling, professional fees, general corporate overhead and other related administrative functions.

                                                    Years ended October 31,                                                    
  (In millions)                                     2023                                   2022                2021            
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Selling, general and administrative expenses      $                            76.4      $         77.5      $         63.6  

SG&A expenses decreased $1.1 million or 1% in fiscal year 2023 compared to the previous year, primarily due to lower ERP and insurance costs. The reduction in ERP expense was concentrated in non-recurring process reengineering costs, while reduced insurance expense was attributed to lower rates on directors and officers liability coverage. These reductions were partially offset by an increase of approximately $2.4 million of expenses from the Blueberries segment, a large portion of which was 
attributed to amortization of an intangible asset recognized in the business combination.

SG&A increased $13.9 million or 22% in fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year, due to ERP costs in our Marketing and Distribution segment, higher employee-related costs, higher professional fees, and higher travel costs. ERP costs consisted of noncapitalizable implementation costs and nonrecurring process re-engineering costs. Employee-related costs were impacted by labor inflation and higher stock-based compensation expense. Higher professional fees were in part due to our change in SEC
filer status from an emerging growth company to a large accelerated filer on October 31, 2021. Travel costs increased as COVID-related travel restrictions eased relative to prior year. The consolidation of Moruga increased selling, general and administrative expenses by $1.7 million, which included amortization of an intangible asset recognized at acquisition.

Goodwill impairment

A noncash impairment loss of $49.5 million was recognized in the consolidated statements of income during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. No goodwill impairment was recognized in fiscal years 2023 or 2021. For more information, refer to Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

Interest expense

Interest expense consists primarily of interest on borrowings under working capital facilities that we maintain and interest on other long-term debt used to make capital and equity investments. We also incur interest expense on finance leases, computed using each leases’ explicit or implicit borrowing rate.

                        Years ended October 31,                                                  
  (In millions)         2023                                   2022               2021           
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Interest expense      $                            11.6      $         5.5      $         3.7  

Interest expense increased $6.1 million or 111% in fiscal year 2023 compared to the previous year, primarily due to the effect of rising interest rates on our credit facility, which is subject to variable rates, as well as higher average outstanding debt balances. Additionally, the Blueberries segment incurred interest expense of $2.2 million related to a long-term finance lease of land as well as short-term bank borrowings and financed payables.

Interest expense increased $1.8 million or 49% in fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year, primarily due to higher interest rates, as the majority of our outstanding debt is subject to variable rates.

Equity method income

Our material equity method investees include Henry Avocado (“HAC”), Mr. Avocado, Copaltas, and up until May 1, 2022, Moruga. On May 1, 2022, Moruga became a variable interest entity and prospectively consolidated into our financial statements.

                                                                   Years ended October 31,                                                 
  (In millions)                                                    2023                                  2022               2021           
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Equity method income                                             $                            4.0      $         5.1      $         7.5  
  Remeasurement gain on acquisition of equity method investee      —                                     2.0                —              

Equity method income decreased $1.1 million or 22% in fiscal year 2023 compared to the previous year, primarily due to lower income from HAC, driven by inflationary pressure on SG&A expense.

Equity method income decreased $2.4 million or 32% in fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year, primarily due to the effect of consolidation of Moruga, partially offset by stronger operating performance from HAC.

Other expense (income), net

Other expense (income), net consists of interest income, currency exchange gains or losses, interest rate derivative gains or losses and other miscellaneous income and expense items.

                                   Years ended October 31,                                                     
  (In millions)                    2023                                  2022                 2021             
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Other expense (income), net      $                            0.2      $         (4.4)      $         (1.3)  

Other expense was $0.2 million in fiscal year 2023, compared to other income of $4.4 million in the previous year. Current year expense is primarily attributed to foreign currency transaction losses primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Mexican peso. In the prior year, gains were generated on interest rate swaps as a result of rising interest rates during the period.

Other income increased $3.1 million or 238% in fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year, primarily due to gains on our interest rate swaps driven by market movements in short-term interest rates. The interest rate swaps are intended to hedge against variable interest rate exposure associated with our term debt facility.

Provision for income taxes

The provision for income taxes consists of the consolidation of tax provisions, computed on a separate entity basis, in each country in which we have operations. We recognize the effects of tax legislation in the period in which the law is enacted. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years we estimate the related temporary differences to reverse. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon future 
earnings, the timing and amount of which are uncertain.

We recognize a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized within provision for income taxes.

Our effective tax rate is impacted by income attributable to foreign jurisdictions which is taxed at different rates from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, changes in foreign exchange rates taxable in foreign jurisdictions and nondeductible tax items.

                                                Years ended October 31,                                                    
                                                2023                                  2022                 2021            
  Provision for income taxes (in millions)      $                            2.2      $           3.7      $         21.1  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Effective tax rate (1)                        (256.6)                               (12.0)               32.0            

(1) May not recalculate due to rounding.

The provision for income tax decreased $1.5 million or 41% in fiscal year 2023 compared to the previous year. The current year provision for income tax was impacted by a $1.7 million charge related to a statutory case in Mexico and $0.5 million in changes in unrecognized tax benefits. These charges were partially offset by a favorable change in ASC 740-30 (formerly APB 23) liability of $1.6 million.

The provision for income taxes decreased $17.4 million or 82% in fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year. In 2022, our provision for income taxes was impacted by the $49.5 million non-deductible goodwill impairment charge, which generated a pre-tax loss. In 2021, the provision for income taxes included a $5.4 million charge from the remeasurement of our deferred tax balances in Peru due to the enactment of tax law in 2020 repealing tax benefits to agribusiness entities. The law subjects 
us to higher Peruvian corporate income tax rates than the rate in effect on the date of repeal of 15%, as follows: 20% for calendar years 2023 to 2024, 25% for calendar years 2025 to 2027, and 29.5% thereafter.

Segment Results of Operations

Our CEO evaluates and monitors segment performance primarily through segment sales and segment adjusted earnings before interest expense, income taxes and depreciation and amortization (“adjusted EBITDA”). We believe that adjusted EBITDA by segment provides useful information for analyzing the underlying business results as well as allowing investors a means to evaluate the financial results of each reportable segment in relation to the Company as a whole. These measures are not in accordance 
with, nor are they a substitute for or superior to, the comparable GAAP financial measures.

Adjusted EBITDA refers to net income (loss), before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization expense, stock-based compensation expense, other income (expense), and income (loss) from equity method investees, further adjusted by asset impairment and disposals, net of insurance recoveries, farming costs for nonproductive orchards (which represents land lease costs), certain noncash and nonrecurring ERP costs, transaction costs, material legal settlements, amortization of 
inventory adjustments recognized from business combinations, and any special, non-recurring, or one-time items such as remeasurements or impairments, and any portion of these items attributable to the noncontrolling interest, all of which are excluded from the results the CEO reviews uses to assess segment performance and results.

Net sales

                                 Marketing & Distribution      International Farming      Total       International Farming      Total       International Farming      Total   
                                 Years ended October 31,                                                                                                                        
  (In millions)                  2023                                                                                                                                           
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Third party sales              $                             $                          $           $                          $           $                          $       
  Affiliated sales               —                             78.6                       78.6        95.6                       95.6        84.9                       84.9    
  Total segment sales            $                             $                          $           $                          $           $                          $       
  Intercompany eliminations      —                             (78.6)                     (78.6)      (95.6)                     (95.6)      (84.9)                     (84.9)  
  Total net sales                $                             $                          $           $                          $           $                          $       

(1) The Blueberries segment was consolidated prospectively from May 1, 2022.

Adjusted EBITDA

                                                                                 Years Ended                                    
                                                                                 October 31,                                    
  (In millions)                                                                         2023        2022      2021              
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Marketing & Distribution adjusted EBITDA                                                 $      40.1 $      23.5 $      51.4  
  International Farming adjusted EBITDA                                                  3.1        23.3      33.9              
  Blueberries adjusted EBITDA                                                            5.2         0.8      —                 
  Total reportable segment adjusted EBITDA                                                 $      48.4 $      47.6 $      85.3  
  Net (loss) income                                                                    (3.1)      (34.9)      44.9              
  Interest expense                                                                      11.6         5.5      3.7               
  Provision for income taxes                                                             2.2         3.7      21.1              
  Depreciation and amortization (1)                                                     32.8        24.8      20.4              
  Equity method income                                                                 (4.0)       (5.1)      (7.5)             
  Stock-based compensation                                                               4.5         3.6      2.6               
  Executive severance                                                                    1.3           —      —                 
  Legal settlement                                                                         —           —      0.8               
  Asset impairment and disposals, net of insurance recoveries                            1.3         0.4      (0.2)             
  Farming costs for nonproductive orchards                                               1.8         1.5      0.8               
  ERP costs (2)                                                                          2.2         4.6      —                 
  Goodwill impairment                                                                      —        49.5      —                 
  Remeasurement gain on business combination with Moruga                                   —       (2.0)      —                 
  Transaction costs                                                                      0.3         0.6      —                 
  Amortization of inventory adjustment recognized from business combination              0.7         0.4      —                 
  Other expense (income), net                                                            0.2       (4.4)      (1.3)             
  Noncontrolling interest (3)                                                          (3.4)       (0.6)      —                 
  Total adjusted EBITDA                                                                    $      48.4 $      47.6 $      85.3  

(1) Includes depreciation and amortization of purchase accounting assets of $2.4 million, $1.4 million and $0.2 million for the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively.

(2) Includes recognition of deferred implementation costs in the years ended October 31, 2023 and 2022. The year ended October 31, 2022 also includes non-recurring post-implementation process reengineering costs.

(3) Represents net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest plus the impact of non-GAAP adjustments, allocable to the noncontrolling owner based on their percentage of ownership interest.

Marketing and Distribution

Net sales in our Marketing and Distribution segment decreased $126.2 million or 12% in fiscal year 2023 compared to the previous year, driven by pricing and volume dynamics described above, which were driven by higher industry supply out of Mexico relative to last year.

Segment adjusted EBITDA increased $16.6 million or 71% in fiscal year 2023 compared to the previous year, due to higher gross margin from higher avocado volume sold and improved avocado per-unit margins.

Net sales in our Marketing and Distribution segment increased $144.1 million or 17% in fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year, due to the same drivers impacting consolidated revenue.

Segment adjusted EBITDA decreased $27.9 million or 54% in fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year, due to the impact of lower avocado volume sold, lower gross margin primarily attributed to ERP-related issues during the first quarter of 2022, and higher selling, general and administrative expense as described above.

International Farming

The vast majority of fruit sales from our International Farming segment are to the Marketing and Distribution segment, with the remainder of revenue largely derived from services provided to third parties and our Blueberries segment. Affiliated sales are concentrated in the second half of the fiscal year in alignment with the Peruvian avocado harvest season, which typically runs from April through September of each year. As a result, adjusted EBITDA for the International Farming segment is 
generally concentrated in the third and fourth quarters of the fiscal year in alignment with the timing of sales. The Company operates approximately 700 acres of mangos in Peru that are largely in an early stage of production. The timing of the mango harvest is concentrated in the

fiscal second quarter and, as a result, mangos have a more pronounced impact on segment financial performance during this timeframe.

Total segment sales in our International Farming segment decreased $24.5 million or 21% in fiscal year 2023 compared to the previous year, primarily due to lower pricing on avocados sold from company-owned farms. Lower pricing conditions were driven by higher worldwide supply of avocados, driven by a stronger Mexican crop, combined with quality issues and a compressed Peruvian harvest season brought about by El Niño-related weather events.

Segment adjusted EBITDA decreased $20.2 million or 87% in fiscal year 2023 compared to the previous year, primarily due to lower gross profit resulting from lower pricing.

Total segment sales in our International Farming segment increased $10.1 million or 10% in fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year, driven by increased avocado production of 15%, which increased affiliated sales.

Segment adjusted EBITDA decreased $10.6 million or 31% in fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year, primarily due to inflationary cost pressures impacting ocean freight costs, packaging costs, and farming input costs, partially offset by increased avocado production at our farms, as well as losses at early-stage mango farms that were mainly driven by lower sales prices and production yields.

Blueberries

In fiscal year 2023, net sales in our Blueberries segment were $52.4 million and segment adjusted EBITDA was $5.2 million. The segment performance benefited from higher volumes associated with the consolidation of our Blueberries segment for the entirety of the fiscal year.

In the six months ended October 31, 2022, which was the period following consolidation, net sales were $10.7 million and segment adjusted EBITDA was $0.8 million.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Operating activities

                                                              Years ended October 31,                                       
  (In millions)                                                                  2023         2022          2021            
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net (loss) income                                                                 $      (3.1) $      (34.9) $      44.9  
  Depreciation and amortization                                                  32.8         24.8          20.4            
  Equity method income                                                          (4.0)        (5.1)         (7.5)            
  Noncash lease expense                                                           5.9          5.3           4.3            
  Stock-based compensation                                                        4.5          3.6           2.6            
  Dividends received from equity method investees                                 2.7          2.2           1.7            
  Deferred income taxes                                                         (6.4)        (0.6)           8.8            
  Goodwill impairment                                                               —         49.5             —            
  Remeasurement gain on business combination with Moruga                            —        (2.0)             —            
  Unrealized losses on foreign currency transactions                              1.4            —             —            
  Unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments                          (0.1)        (4.7)         (0.8)            
  Other                                                                           1.7          0.9           0.3            
  Change in working capital                                                     (6.2)        (3.8)        (27.7)            
  Net cash provided by operating activities                                         $       29.2 $        35.2 $      47.0  

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $6.0 million for 2023 compared to the previous year. The change was driven by weaker operating performance within our International Farming segment and working capital growth. Within working capital, unfavorable changes in accounts receivable and accounts payable and accrued expenses were largely offset by favorable changes in inventory and other receivables. Trade accounts receivable were impacted by higher avocado sales prices as well as 
higher blueberry volumes and pricing, the former of which includes balances outstanding at our new U.K. entity which commenced operations this fiscal year. At our International Farming segment, the earlier completion of the avocado season compared to prior year correlated with unfavorable changes in accounts payable and accrued expenses and conversely, favorable changes in on-hand inventory of company owned fruit and reductions in other assets from accelerated VAT refunds.

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $11.8 million for fiscal year 2022 compared to the previous year, reflecting our net loss in the current year compared to net income in the prior year, partially offset by improvements in working

capital. Working capital was primarily impacted by favorable movement in accounts receivable, partially offset by unfavorable movement in inventory. Accounts receivable as of October 31, 2022 was lower compared to prior year, as a result of per-unit sales prices trending lower during the fourth quarter. Changes in inventory were primarily driven by the consolidation of Moruga and its respective inventory.

Investing activities

                                                                               Years ended October 31,                                                            
  (In millions)                                                                2023                                     2022                   2021               
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Purchases of property, plant and equipment                                   $                            (49.8)      $          (61.2)      $          (73.4)  
  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment                          0.2                                      3.0                    2.4                
  Insurance proceeds for the replacement of property, plant and equipment      —                                        —                      1.1                
  Cash acquired in consolidation of Moruga                                     —                                        4.3                    —                  
  Investment in equity method investees                                        (2.1)                                    (0.4)                  (0.2)              
  Purchase of other investment                                                 (2.3)                                    —                      —                  
  Loans to equity method investees                                             —                                        —                      (2.0)              
  Loan repayments from equity method investees                                 —                                        3.0                    1.5                
  Other                                                                        (0.1)                                    (0.1)                  0.3                
  Net cash used in investing activities                                        $                            (54.1)      $          (51.4)      $          (70.3)  

Property, plant and equipment

In fiscal year 2023, capital expenditures were concentrated in pre-production avocado orchard maintenance in Guatemala and Peru and construction costs on our new UK distribution facility. Capital expenditures in the Blueberries operation were $12.9 million, primarily related to irrigation installation and early-stage plant cultivation.

In fiscal year 2022, capital expenditures were concentrated in the purchase of farmland in Peru as well as land improvements and orchard development of avocados in Guatemala and both avocados and blueberries in Peru. Capital expenditures in the Blueberries operation were $6.9 million, primarily related to early-stage plant cultivation.

Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment were primarily from land that had been originally intended for use as our corporate headquarters.

Equity method investees

In all fiscal years presented, we made contributions to Copaltas and Mr. Avocado. Funds were used by Copaltas for the purchase of additional farmland in Colombia. Funds were used by Mr. Avocado to support working capital needs and an investment in a new distribution facility in southern China.

Loan repayments made in fiscal years 2022 and 2021 were from Copaltas and Moruga, respectively.

Other investment

In fiscal year 2023, we acquired a 5.1% equity interest in shares of common stock of a private entity that is developing avocado orchards in South Africa.

Financing activities

                                                                                  Years ended October 31,                             
  (In millions)                                                                                      2023      2022         2021      
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Borrowings on revolving credit facility                                                               $      145.0 $      80.0 $    
  Payments on revolving credit facility                                                           (130.0)      (40.0)       —         
  Proceeds from short-term borrowings                                                                 2.8      2.5          —         
  Repayment of short-term borrowings                                                                (2.5)      —            —         
  Principal payments on long-term debt obligations                                                  (3.5)      (63.3)       (10.5)    
  Principal payments on finance lease obligations                                                   (2.6)      (1.2)        (1.2)     
  Proceeds from loan from noncontrolling interest holder                                              2.0      —            —         
  Payments for long-term supplier financing                                                         (0.1)      —            —         
  Purchase and retirement of common stock                                                           (0.6)      —            —         
  Taxes paid related to shares withheld from the settlement of equity awards                        (0.5)      —            —         
  Exercise of stock options                                                                           0.1      0.1          0.2       
  Repayment of stock option notes receivable                                                            —      —            0.1       
  Payment of debt issuance, restructuring or extinguishment fees                                        —      (0.8)        (0.1)     
  Equity contributions from noncontrolling interest holders                                           4.2      0.9          —         
  Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                                                   $      14.3 $       (21.8) $  

Borrowings and repayments of debt

We utilize a revolving line of credit for short-term working capital purposes. Principal payments on our term loans and other notes payable are made in accordance with debt maturity schedules. The financing cash flow for fiscal 2022 reflects the modification of principal amounts on our term-loans and increased borrowing capacity on our revolver.

Blueberries

Financing at our Blueberries segment consists of shareholder contributions and loans, as well as short-term bank borrowings. In fiscal 2023, shareholder contributions were made to fund capital expenditures as described above in the Investing Activities section. Principal payments on finance lease obligations related to a long-term land lease in our Blueberries segment, which for accounting purposes has been classified as a finance lease.

Purchase and retirement of common stock

Shares of the company’s common stock may be repurchased from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions under our share repurchase program. Refer to Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for more information.

Capital resources

                                 October 31,                                 
  (In millions)                  2023                       2022             
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Cash and cash equivalents      $                42.9      $          52.8  
  Working capital (1)            122.6                      126.4            

(1) Includes cash and cash equivalents

Capital resources include cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents, and debt financing. Our Blueberries segment may also receive capital contributions or loans from noncontrolling shareholders.

Our syndicated credit facility with Bank of America has a total borrowing capacity of $250 million. The credit facility is comprised of two senior term loans totaling $100 million and a revolving credit agreement of $150 million. The loans are secured by assets of the Company, including certain real property, personal property and capital stock of the Company’s subsidiaries. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at a spread over SOFR ranging from 1.5% to 2.5% depending on the 
Company’s consolidated total net leverage ratio. We pay fees on unused commitments on the credit facility.

As of October 31, 2023, we were required to comply with the following financial covenants: (a) a quarterly consolidated leverage ratio of not more than 3.5 to 1.00 and (b) a quarterly consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.00.

As of October 31, 2023, our consolidated leverage ratio was 2.64 to 1.00 and our consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio was 1.58 to 1.00 and we were in compliance with all such covenants of the credit facility.

Material cash requirements

Capital expenditures

We have various capital projects in progress for farming expansion and facility improvements which we intend to fund through our operating cash flow as well as cash and cash equivalents on hand. For fiscal 2024, we expect capital expenditures to be between $30 to $35 million.

Moruga Blueberry Project

In fiscal year 2023, Moruga commenced its previously announced project to farm approximately 1,500 additional acres of blueberries in the Olmos region of Peru. The project is funded by cash flow generated by Moruga and supplemented by pro-rata shareholder contributions based on each shareholders’ respective ownership interest. As of October 31, 2023, the estimated remaining capital expenditures related to the project were approximately $40 million, to be spent in phases through fiscal 2028, 
depending on timing and other factors.

Leases

We are party to various leases, the most material of which are for facilities and land. Our undiscounted cash liabilities were approximately $176.1 million as of October 31, 2023, of which, approximately $56.0 million was for a long-term land lease in our Blueberries segment.

Long-term debt

As of October 31, 2023, remaining maturities on our term loans and notes were $152.0 million. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for more information.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We 
base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Additionally, we frequently engage third party valuation experts to assist us with estimates described below. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Business combinations. We account for business combinations under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, which requires an allocation of the consideration paid, if any, to the identifiable assets, intangible assets and liabilities based on the estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Goodwill represents the excess of the sum of the fair value of our previously held equity interest and the fair value of the noncontrolling interest, 
over the net of the acquisition-date values of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed. Management estimates the fair value of assets and liabilities with the assistance of a third-party specialist, using a combination of the market and income valuation methods. These valuation methods use inputs that are estimated by management, such as revenue forecasts, projected capital spend and estimates for cost of sales. The Company may adjust the amounts recognized for a business combination 
within the allowable one-year measurement period after the acquisition date. Any such adjustments would generally be recorded as increases or decreases to the goodwill recognized in the transaction.

Goodwill. Our goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill impairment testing requires significant judgment and management estimates, including, but not limited to, the determination of (i) the number of reporting units, (ii) the goodwill and other assets and liabilities to be allocated to the reporting units and (iii) the fair values of the reporting units. The estimates and assumptions described above, 
along with other factors such as discount rates, will significantly affect the outcome of the impairment tests and the amounts of any resulting impairment losses. We may use either a qualitative or quantitative approach when testing a reporting unit’s goodwill for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter of each year, and between annual tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we use a qualitative approach and 
determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we would then perform the first step of the goodwill impairment test, which would consist primarily of a discounted cash flow (“DCF”) analysis and guideline publicly-traded companies (“GPC”) analysis to determine the fair value of the reporting unit.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test on our Peruvian farming reporting unit within the International Farming segment and determined that the qualitative factors indicated that it was more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting unit was less than its carrying value. As a result, with the assistance of a third-party specialist, we performed a quantitative assessment of the fair value of the reporting unit using the DCF and GPC 
methods described in Notes 3 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements, resulting in an impairment charge of $49.5 million. The significant assumptions used in determining the fair values of the reporting unit have been described in Note 4. To the extent that BEV to EBITDA multiples in the future decrease, the discount rate used in determining the present value of our cash flows increases, or if the Company does not meet its cash flow projections for the reporting unit, additional 
impairment charges may be recorded in the future.

Investments. We maintain investments in other fruit growers, packers and distributors. These investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting when we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee. Significant influence generally exists when we have an ownership interest representing between 20% and 50% of the voting stock of the investee. Under the equity method of accounting, investments are stated at initial cost and are adjusted for 
subsequent additional investments and our proportionate share of earnings or losses and distributions. We review our investments for other-than temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) on a quarterly basis, or earlier if indicators of impairment arise. If an impairment of an equity method investment is determined to be other than temporary, we would record OTTI sufficient to reduce the investment’s carrying value to its fair value, which results in a new cost basis in the investment. The primary factors we
consider in our determination of whether declines in fair value are other-than-temporary are the length of time that the fair value of the investment is below our carrying value; the severity of the decline; and the financial condition, operating performance and near-term prospects of the investee. In addition, we consider the reason for the decline in fair value, be it general market conditions, industry specific or investee specific; and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a 
period of time sufficient to allow for a recovery in fair value. As our assessment of the fair value of our investments and any resulting impairment losses and the timing of when to recognize such charges requires judgment and includes estimates and assumptions, actual results could differ materially from our estimates and assumptions.

Income taxes. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions, and the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. If we ultimately determine that the payment of these liabilities will be unnecessary, the liability will be reversed, and we will recognize a tax benefit during the period in which it is determined the liability no longer applies. 
Conversely, we record additional tax charges in a period in which it is determined that a recorded tax liability is less than the ultimate assessment is expected to be.

We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are recognized within provision for income taxes.

The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Therefore, the actual liability for U.S. or foreign taxes may be materially different from management’s estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse 
previously recorded tax liabilities.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

Refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included herein for information on recently issued accounting standards.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

During the periods presented we did not have, nor do we currently have, any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined under SEC rules, except as follows:

The Company may issue standby letters of credit through banking institutions. As of October 31, 2023, total letters of credit outstanding were $0.7 million.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

Borrowings under our credit facility bear variable interest rates, based on SOFR, plus spreads that vary with the Company’s leverage ratio. A 10% increase or decrease in the interest rate on our long-term debt would not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Foreign Currency Risk

The majority of our sales are currently conducted in U.S. dollars, while a significant portion of our input costs are denominated in foreign currencies. Due to our short inventory turn-time and short-term pricing, transactions that may be conducted in foreign currencies are not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows because of the short-term on-hand time of the fruit, and the sales price increases passed through.

Effects of Inflation

Inflation generally affects us by increasing our cost of labor, materials, transportation, and general overhead costs. We cannot reasonably estimate our ability to successfully recover any impact of inflation through price increases in the future.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements required pursuant to this item are incorporated by reference herein from the applicable information included in Item 15 of this annual report and are presented beginning on page F-1.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, with the participation and supervision of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and
communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management recognizes that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives, and management necessarily applies its judgment in evaluating the cost‑benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls 
and procedures, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of October 31, 2023.

Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act). Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of October 31, 2023.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2023 has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which is included below.

Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm

The attestation report of the independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is included below under the heading “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.”

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the year ended October 31, 2023 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures

Our management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. 
Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our Company have been detected.

Item 9B. Other Information

None.

Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections

None.

PART III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information required by this item will be contained in our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC in connection with our 2024 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or the Definitive Proxy Statement, which is expected to be filed not later than 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended October 31, 2023, under the headings “Election of Directors,” “Executive Officers,” and “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports,” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Code of Conduct and Ethics

We have adopted a Code of Conduct and Ethics that applies to our officers, directors and employees, which is available on our website at www.missionproduce.com. The Code of Conduct and Ethics contains general guidelines for conducting the business of our company consistent with the highest standards of business ethics and is intended to qualify as a “code of ethics” within the meaning of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Item 406 of Regulation S-K. In addition, we intend to 
promptly disclose (1) the nature of any amendment to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions and (2) the nature of any waiver, including an implicit waiver, from a provision of our code of ethics that is granted to one of these specified officers, the name of such person who is granted the waiver and the date of the waiver on our website
in the future.

Insider Trading Policies

The information required by this item will be set forth in the section headed “Insider Trading Policies” in our Definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of our Insider Trading Compliance Policy, including any amendments thereto, is also filed as Exhibit 19.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by this item will be set forth in the section headed “Executive Compensation” in our Definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item will be set forth in the section headed “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in our Definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

The information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K will be set forth in the section headed “Executive Compensation” in our Definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The information required by this item will be set forth in the section headed “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions,” “Director Independence” and “Board Committees and Charters” in our Definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this item will be set forth in the section headed “Fees Billed by Deloitte for 2023 and 2022” in our Definitive Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV- OTHER INFORMATION

Item 15. Exhibit and Financial Statement Schedules

A.All financial statements

The financial statements of Mission Produce, Inc., together with the report thereon of Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, are included in this annual report on Form 10-K beginning on page F-1.

B.Financial statement schedules

All schedules have been omitted because the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

C.Exhibits

The documents set forth are filed herewith or incorporated herein by reference.

INDEX

                                                                          Incorporated by Reference                                           
  Exhibit No.      Exhibit Description                                    Form                           Date           Number      Filed     
  3.1#             Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation      8-K                            10/7/2020         3.1                
  3.2#             Amended and Restated Bylaws                            8-K                            10/7/2020         3.2                
  4.1#             Form of Common Stock Certificate                       S-1/A                          9/22/2020         4.1                

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Incorporated by Reference                                            
  Exhibit No.      Exhibit Description                                                                                                                                                                                       Form                           Date            Number      Filed     
  4.2#             Description of Capital Stock                                                                                                                                                                              10-K                           12/22/2021         4.2                
  10.1#+           Mission Produce, Inc. Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Incentive Plan                                                                                                                                      S-1/A                          9/22/2020         10.1                
  10.2#+           Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Mission Produce, Inc. Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Incentive Plan                                                                                       S-8                            10/5/2020         10.2                
  10.3#+           Mission Produce, Inc. 2020 Incentive Award Plan                                                                                                                                                           S-1                            9/4/2020          10.3                
  10.5#+           Form of Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the Mission Produce, Inc. 2020 Incentive Award Plan                                                                                                            S-1                            9/4/2020          10.5                
  10.6#+           Form of RSU Agreement pursuant to the Mission Produce, Inc. 2020 Incentive Award Plan                                                                                                                     S-1                            9/4/2020          10.6                
  10.7#+           Form of Indemnification Agreement between Mission Produce, Inc. and certain of its directors and officers                                                                                                 S-1                            9/4/2020          10.7                
  10.8#            Credit Agreement, dated as of October 11, 2018, by and among Mission Produce, Inc., as Borrower, certain subsidiaries of the Borrower party thereto as guarantors, Bank of America, N.A. as admin...      S-1                            9/4/2020          10.8                
  10.9#            First Amendment to Credit Agreement and Consent, dated September 18, 2020, by and among Mission Produce, Inc., as Borrower, certain subsidiaries of the Borrower party thereto as guarantors, Ban...      S-1/A                          9/22/2020         10.9                
  10.10#           Form of Amended and Restated Stockholder Agreement, by and among Mission Produce, Inc. and the stockholder party thereto                                                                                  S-1/A                          9/22/2020        10.10                
  10.11#           Corporate Headquarters Lease Agreement                                                                                                                                                                    10-K                           1/19/2021        10.11                
  10.13#+          Mission Produce Deferred Compensation Plan                                                                                                                                                                10-K                           12/22/2021       10.13                
  10.14#+          Director Equity Deferral Plan                                                                                                                                                                             10-K                           12/22/2021       10.14                
  10.15#+          Form of Performance Stock Unit Agreement pursuant to the Mission Produce, Inc. 2020 Incentive Award Plan                                                                                                  10-K                           12/22/2022       10.15                
  10.16#+          Offer letter dated March 8, 2021 to Joanne Wu                                                                                                                                                             10-K                           12/22/2021       10.16                
  10.17#           Second Amendment dated April 26, 2022, to the Credit Agreement dated as of October 11, 2018 and amended on September 18, 2020, by and among Mission Produce, Inc., as Borrower, certain subsidiar...      8-K                            4/26/2022        10.17                
  10.18+           Amended and Restated Non-Employee Director Compensation Program                                                                                                                                                                                                      X         
  10.19+#          Offer letter dated April 26, 2022 to Tim Bulow                                                                                                                                                            10-Q                           6/8/2022         10.19                
  10.20#           Third Amendment to the Credit Agreement, dated as of October 11, 2018, as amended on September 18, 2020 and April 26, 2022, by and among Mission Produce, Inc., as Borrower, certain subsidiaries...      8-K                            10/21/2022       10.20                
  10.21#+          Employee Equity Deferral Plan                                                                                                                                                                             10-K                           12/22/2022       10.21                
  10.22+           Employment Agreement, dated August 7, 2023 by and between Mission Produce, Inc., and Stephen J. Barnard                                                                                                   8-K                            8/7/2023          10.1                
  10.23#+          Executive Severance and Change in Control Plan                                                                                                                                                            8-K                            8/7/2023          10.2                
  10.24+           Separation Agreement and General Release from Tim Bulow                                                                                                                                                                                                              X         
  10.25            L and Lease Agreement Between Blue berries P eru S.A. and Agrolatam S.A.C.                                                                                                                                                                                           X         
  19.1             Insider Trading Compliance Policy                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X         
  21.1#            List of Subsidiaries of Registrant                                                                                                                                                                        10-K                           12/22/2022        21.1                
  23.1             Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X         
  24.1             Power of Attorney                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X         

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Incorporated by Reference  
  Exhibit No.      Exhibit Description                                                                                                                                                                                       Form Filed                 
  31.1*            Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of...      X                          
  31.2*            Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of...      X                          
  32.1*            Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002                                                                                                        X                          
  32.2*            Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002                                                                                                        X                          
  97.1             Policy for Recovery of Erroneously Awarded Compensation                                                                                                                                                   X                          
  101              The following financial statements from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2023 formatted in Inline XBRL: (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Consolidated...      X                          
  104              Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101)                                                                                                                  X                          

  Previously filed                                                                                                                                                                                      
  Indicates management contract or compensatory plan.                                                                                                                                                   
  These certifications are being furnished solely to accompany this annual report pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, and are not being filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange...  

Item 16. Form 10-K Summary

Not applicable.

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this annual report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on December 21, 2023.

  MISSION PRODUCE, INC.                 
  /s/ Stephen J. Barnard                
  Stephen J. Barnard                    
  Chief Executive Officer and Director  

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Stephen J. Barnard and Bryan E. Giles, or either of them, his or her attorneys-in-fact, each with the power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to file the same, with Exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming 
all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or substitute or substitutes may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this annual report has been signed below on December 21, 2023, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

  Signature                   Title                                                                 
  /s/ Stephen J. Barnard                                                                            
  Stephen J. Barnard          Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)    
  /s/ Bryan E. Giles                                                                                
  Bryan E. Giles              Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)  
  /s/ Stephen A. Beebe                                                                              
  Stephen A. Beebe            Director                                                              
  /s/ Stephen W. Bershad                                                                            
  Stephen W. Bershad          Director                                                              
  /s/ Luis A. Gonzalez                                                                              
  Luis A. Gonzalez            Director                                                              
  /s/ Bonnie C. Lind                                                                                
  Bonnie C. Lind              Director                                                              
  /s/ Jay A. Pack                                                                                   
  Jay A. Pack                 Director                                                              
  /s/ Bruce C. Taylor                                                                               
  Bruce C. Taylor             Director                                                              
  /s/ Linda B. Segre                                                                                
  Linda B. Segre              Director                                                              
  /s/ Tony Bashir Sarsam                                                                            
  Tony Bashir Sarsam          Director                                                              

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                                                         Page   
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB Issued Audit Firm Identifier # 34)      F- 2   
  Consolidated Balance Sheets                                                                            F- 5   
  Consolidated Statements of (Loss) Income                                                               F- 6   
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive (Loss) Income                                                 F- 7   
  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity                                                           F- 8   
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                                                                  F- 9   
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                             F- 11  

F-1

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of Mission Produce, Inc.

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Mission Produce, Inc and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of October 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal 
Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended October 31, 2023, of the Company and our report dated December 21, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to
be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based 
on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions 
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Los Angeles, California

December 21, 2023

F-2

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of Mission Produce, Inc.

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Mission Produce, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of October 31, 2023 and 2022, the related consolidated statements of (loss) income, comprehensive (loss) income, changes in equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2023, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, 
the financial position of the Company as of October 31, 2023 and 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2023, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated December 21, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included 
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole,
and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.

Goodwill - Peruvian Farming Reporting Unit - Refer to Note 2 and Note 4 to the financial statements

Critical Audit Matter Description

The Company’s goodwill for its Peruvian farming reporting unit within the International Farming segment is tested annually for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. The Company’s evaluation of its Peruvian farming goodwill for impairment involves the comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value.

The Company elected to use a quantitative approach to determine the fair value of the Peruvian farming reporting unit based upon the discounted cash flow method and the guideline publicly-traded companies method based on marketplace multiples to determine the fair value of its reporting unit. The fair value determination using the discounted cash flow method requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasts of future revenues and earnings before interest, 
taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) and the discount rate. The determination of the fair value using the public company guideline method requires management to make significant assumptions related to marketplace EBITDA multiples from within a peer public company group. The goodwill balance was $39.4 million as of October 31, 2023, of which $26.9 million was allocated to the Peruvian farming reporting unit within International Farming segment. The fair value of the Peruvian farming 
reporting unit was greater than its carrying value as of the measurement date, and as a result, management did not record an impairment charge related to the reporting unit goodwill.

F-3

Given the significant judgments made by management to estimate the fair value of Peruvian farming reporting unit, performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of management’s estimates and assumptions related to forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA, as well as the selection of the discount rate and the selection of multiples applied to management's forecasted EBITDA estimates for the Peruvian farming reporting unit, required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased 
extent of effort, including the need to involve our fair value specialists.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future revenues and EBITDA ("forecasts"), the selection of the discount rate and the selection of multiples applied to management's forecasted EBITDA estimates ("market multiples") for the Peruvian farming reporting unit included the following, among others:

• We tested the effectiveness of controls over management's goodwill impairment evaluation over the determination of the fair value of the Peruvian farming reporting unit, such as controls related to management's forecasts and the selection of the discount rate and market multiples used.

• We evaluated management’s ability to accurately forecast by comparing actual results to management’s historical forecasts.

• We evaluated the reasonableness of management's forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical results, (2) internal communications, (3) inquiry with non-management personnel and (4) forecasted information included in industry reports that the Peruvian farming reporting unit operates within.

• With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated (1) the valuation methodologies used, (2) the marketplace multiples selected by management, and (3) the discount rate used in determining the present value of the expected cash flows by developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the rate selected by management.

• We considered the impact of (1) changes in the industry and (2) current macroeconomic factors on management's forecasts.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Los Angeles, California

December 21, 2023

We have served as the Company's auditor since 2019.

F-4

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                                                                                                                                                                            October 31,                          
  (In millions, except for shares)                                                                                                                                                                 2023         2022             
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Assets                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  Current Assets:                                                                                                                                                                                                                
  Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                                                           $       42.9 $       52.8  
  Restricted cash                                                                                                                                                                                   0.3          1.1             
  Accounts receivable                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  Trade, net of allowances of $ 0.9 and $ 0.3, respectively                                                                                                                                        74.1         62.9             
  Grower and fruit advances                                                                                                                                                                         0.9          1.8             
  Other                                                                                                                                                                                            12.4         17.3             
  Inventory                                                                                                                                                                                        70.8         73.1             
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                                                                                                                                         9.1         11.1             
  Income taxes receivable                                                                                                                                                                           9.6          8.0             
  Total current assets                                                                                                                                                                            220.1        228.1             
  Property, plant and equipment, net                                                                                                                                                              523.2        489.7             
  Operating lease right-of-use assets                                                                                                                                                              72.4         65.4             
  Equity method investees                                                                                                                                                                          31.0         27.1             
  Deferred income tax assets, net                                                                                                                                                                   8.5          8.1             
  Goodwill                                                                                                                                                                                         39.4         39.4             
  Intangible asset, net                                                                                                                                                                             0.5          2.0             
  Other assets                                                                                                                                                                                     19.7         19.7             
  Total assets                                                                                                                                                                                        $      914.8 $      879.5  
  Liabilities and Equity                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  Liabilities                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  Accounts payable                                                                                                                                                                                    $       27.2 $       34.4  
  Accrued expenses                                                                                                                                                                                 26.4         30.1             
  Income taxes payable                                                                                                                                                                              1.6          1.0             
  Grower payables                                                                                                                                                                                  26.4         24.3             
  Short-term borrowings                                                                                                                                                                             2.8          2.5             
  Loans from noncontrolling interest holders—current portion                                                                                                                                        0.5            —             
  Long-term debt—current portion                                                                                                                                                                    3.4          3.5             
  Operating leases—current portion                                                                                                                                                                  6.6          4.7             
  Finance leases—current portion                                                                                                                                                                    2.6          1.2             
  Total current liabilities                                                                                                                                                                        97.5        101.7             
  Long-term debt, net of current portion                                                                                                                                                          148.6        136.9             
  Loans from noncontrolling interest holders, net of current portion                                                                                                                                2.5          1.0             
  Operating leases, net of current portion                                                                                                                                                         71.0         63.9             
  Finance leases, net of current portion                                                                                                                                                           14.7          1.4             
  Income taxes payable                                                                                                                                                                              2.3          3.1             
  Deferred income tax liabilities, net                                                                                                                                                             23.5         29.4             
  Other long-term liabilities                                                                                                                                                                      26.4         19.2             
  Total liabilities                                                                                                                                                                               386.5        356.6             
  Commitments and contingencies (Note 11)                                                                                                                                                                                        
  Shareholders’ Equity                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  Common stock ($ 0.001 par value, 1,000,000,000 shares authorized; 70,728,404 and 70,669,535 shares issued and outstanding as of October 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022, respectively)              0.1          0.1             
  Additional paid-in capital                                                                                                                                                                      233.4        229.3             
  Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                                                                                                                           ( 0.9)       ( 1.7)             
  Retained earnings                                                                                                                                                                               271.0        274.4             
  Mission Produce shareholders' equity                                                                                                                                                            503.6        502.1             
  Noncontrolling interest                                                                                                                                                                          24.7         20.8             
  Total equity                                                                                                                                                                                    528.3        522.9             
  Total liabilities and equity                                                                                                                                                                        $      914.8 $      879.5  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-5

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF (LOSS) INCOME

                                                                    Years Ended                                                                
                                                                    October 31,                                                                
  (In millions, except for per share amounts)                       2023                             2022                   2021               
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net sales                                                         $                  953.9            $      1,045.9      $           891.7  
  Cost of sales                                                     870.6                           956.1                   767.2              
  Gross profit                                                      83.3                             89.8                   124.5              
  Selling, general and administrative expenses                      76.4                             77.5                   63.6               
  Goodwill impairment                                               —                                49.5                   —                  
  Operating income (loss)                                           6.9                           ( 37.2)                   60.9               
  Interest expense                                                  ( 11.6)                        ( 5.5)                   ( 3.7)             
  Equity method income                                              4.0                               5.1                   7.5                
  Remeasurement gain on acquisition of equity method investee       —                                 2.0                   —                  
  Other (expense) income, net                                       ( 0.2)                            4.4                   1.3                
  (Loss) income before income taxes                                 ( 0.9)                        ( 31.2)                   66.0               
  Provision for income taxes                                        2.2                               3.7                   21.1               
  Net (loss) income                                                 $                 ( 3.1)            $      ( 34.9)      $            44.9  
  Less:                                                             ( 0.3)                         ( 0.3)                   —                  
  Net (loss) income attributable to Mission Produce                 $                 ( 2.8)            $      ( 34.6)      $            44.9  
  Net (loss) income per share attributable to Mission Produce:                                                                                 
  Basic                                                             $                ( 0.04)            $      ( 0.49)      $            0.64  
  Diluted                                                           $                ( 0.04)            $      ( 0.49)      $            0.63  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-6

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME

                                                                   Years Ended                                                            
                                                                   October 31,                                                            
  (In millions)                                                    2023                         2022                      2021            
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net (loss) income                                                $                ( 3.1)      $            ( 34.9)      $         44.9  
  Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax                                                                                           
  Foreign currency translation adjustments                         0.8                          ( 1.2)                    —               
  Comprehensive (loss) income                                      ( 2.3)                       ( 36.1)                   44.9            
  Comprehensive loss attributable to noncontrolling interest       ( 0.3)                       ( 0.3)                    —               
  Comprehensive (loss) income attributable to Mission Produce      $                ( 2.0)      $            ( 35.8)      $         44.9  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-7

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

  (In millions, except for shares)                                                                                    Additional paid-in capital      Accumulated other comprehensive loss      Retained earnings      Noncontrolling interest      Total equity  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Shares                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Balance at October 31, 2020                                                                         70,550,922      0.1 $                           $                                         $                      $                                       $  
  Stock-based compensation                                                                                            2.6                             —                                         —                      —                                     2.6  
  Exercise of stock options                                                                               22,272      0.2                             —                                         —                      —                                     0.2  
  Issuance of common stock for equity awards, net of shares withheld for the settlement of taxes          58,331      —                               —                                         —                      —                                       —  
  Repayment of stock option notes receivable                                                                          —                               —                                         —                      —                                     0.1  
  Net income                                                                                                          —                               —                                         44.9                   —                                    44.9  
  Cumulative effect of change in tax accounting principle (1)                                                         —                               —                                         12.9                   —                                    12.9  
  Balance at October 31, 2021                                                                         70,631,525      0.1 $                           $                                         $                      $                                       $  
  Stock-based compensation                                                                                            3.6                             —                                         —                      —                                     3.6  
  Issuance of common stock for equity awards, net of shares withheld for the settlement of taxes          38,010      0.1                             —                                         —                      —                                     0.1  
  Net loss                                                                                                            —                               —                                         ( 34.6)                ( 0.3)                            ( 34.9)  
  Acquired noncontrolling interest                                                                                    —                               —                                         —                      20.2                                 20.2  
  Contributions from noncontrolling interest holders                                                                  —                               —                                         —                      0.9                                   0.9  
  Other comprehensive loss                                                                                            —                               ( 1.2)                                    —                      —                                  ( 1.2)  
  Balance at October 31, 2022                                                                         70,669,535      0.1 $                           $                                         $                      $                                       $  
  Stock-based compensation                                                                                            4.5                             —                                         —                      —                                     4.5  
  Exercise of stock options                                                                               19,043      0.1                             —                                         —                      —                                     0.1  
  Issuance of common stock for equity awards, net of shares withheld for the settlement of taxes         107,004      ( 0.5)                          —                                         —                      —                                  ( 0.5)  
  Purchase and retirement of common stock                                                              ( 67,178)      —                               —                                         ( 0.6)                 —                                  ( 0.6)  
  Net loss                                                                                                            —                               —                                         ( 2.8)                 ( 0.3)                             ( 3.1)  
  Contributions from noncontrolling interest holders                                                                  —                               —                                         —                      4.2                                   4.2  
  Other comprehensive income                                                                                          —                               0.8                                       —                      —                                     0.8  
  Balance at October 31, 2023                                                                         70,728,404      0.1 $                           $                                         $                      $                                       $  

(1) Related to the adoption of income tax guidance ASU 2019-12, wherein we derecognized a deferred tax liability against retained earnings.

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-8

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                                                                                               Years Ended                                             
                                                                                               October 31,                                             
  (In millions)                                                                                       2023           2022           2021               
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Operating Activities                                                                                                                                 
  Net (loss) income                                                                                      $       ( 3.1) $      ( 34.9) $         44.9  
  Adjustments to reconcile net (loss) income to net cash provided by operating activities                                                              
  Provision for losses on accounts receivable                                                          0.1            0.1              —               
  Depreciation and amortization                                                                       32.8           24.8           20.4               
  Amortization of debt issuance costs                                                                  0.2            0.3            0.3               
  Equity method income                                                                              ( 4.0)         ( 5.1)         ( 7.5)               
  Noncash lease expense                                                                                5.9            5.3            4.3               
  Stock-based compensation                                                                             4.5            3.6            2.6               
  Dividends received from equity method investees                                                      2.7            2.2            1.7               
  Losses on asset impairment, disposals and sales, net of insurance recoveries                         1.3            0.4            0.1               
  Deferred income taxes                                                                             ( 6.4)         ( 0.6)            8.8               
  Goodwill impairment                                                                                    —           49.5              —               
  Remeasurement gain on business combination with Moruga                                                 —         ( 2.0)              —               
  Unrealized losses on foreign currency transactions                                                   1.4              —              —               
  Unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments                                              ( 0.1)         ( 4.7)         ( 0.8)               
  Other                                                                                                0.1            0.1         ( 0.1)               
  Effect on cash of changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisition:                                                                   
  Trade accounts receivable                                                                        ( 10.6)           10.6        ( 16.4)               
  Grower fruit advances                                                                                0.9         ( 1.2)            0.8               
  Other receivables                                                                                    5.0         ( 2.4)            2.6               
  Inventory                                                                                            3.0        ( 15.3)        ( 11.2)               
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                                            2.0         ( 0.4)         ( 2.5)               
  Income taxes receivable                                                                           ( 1.6)         ( 1.1)         ( 3.8)               
  Other assets                                                                                         1.0            0.2         ( 3.5)               
  Accounts payable and accrued expenses                                                             ( 8.9)            9.4            8.9               
  Income taxes payable                                                                              ( 0.2)         ( 1.3)         ( 0.1)               
  Grower payables                                                                                      2.2            2.2            3.4               
  Operating lease liabilities                                                                       ( 3.8)         ( 4.0)         ( 3.2)               
  Other long-term liabilities                                                                          4.8         ( 0.5)         ( 2.7)               
  Net cash provided by operating activities                                                              $         29.2 $         35.2 $         47.0  
  Investing Activities                                                                                                                                 
  Purchases of property, plant and equipment                                                       ( 49.8)        ( 61.2)        ( 73.4)               
  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment                                                  0.2            3.0            2.4               
  Insurance proceeds for the replacement of property, plant and equipment                                —              —            1.1               
  Cash acquired in consolidation of Moruga                                                               —            4.3              —               
  Investment in equity method investees                                                             ( 2.1)         ( 0.4)         ( 0.2)               
  Purchase of other investment                                                                      ( 2.3)              —              —               
  Loans to equity method investees                                                                       —              —         ( 2.0)               
  Loan repayments from equity method investees                                                           —            3.0            1.5               
  Other                                                                                             ( 0.1)         ( 0.1)            0.3               
  Net cash used in investing activities                                                                  $      ( 54.1) $      ( 51.4) $      ( 70.3)  
  Financing Activities                                                                                                                                 
  Borrowings on revolving credit facility                                                            145.0           80.0              —               
  Payments on revolving credit facility                                                           ( 130.0)        ( 40.0)              —               
  Proceeds from short-term borrowings                                                                  2.8            2.5              —               

F-9

                                                                                                              Years Ended                                                                
                                                                                                              October 31,                                                                
  (In millions)                                                                                               2023                       2022                      2021                  
  Repayment of short-term borrowings                                                                          ( 2.5)                     —                         —                     
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Principal payments on long-term debt obligations                                                            ( 3.5)                     ( 63.3)                   ( 10.5)               
  Principal payments on finance lease obligations                                                             ( 2.6)                     ( 1.2)                    ( 1.2)                
  Proceeds from loan from noncontrolling interest holder                                                      2.0                        —                         —                     
  Payments for long-term supplier financing                                                                   ( 0.1)                     —                         —                     
  Purchase and retirement of common stock                                                                     ( 0.6)                     —                         —                     
  Taxes paid related to shares withheld from the settlement of equity awards                                  ( 0.5)                     —                         —                     
  Exercise of stock options                                                                                   0.1                        0.1                       0.2                   
  Repayment of stock option notes receivable                                                                  —                          —                         0.1                   
  Payment of debt issuance, restructuring or extinguishment fees                                              —                          ( 0.8)                    ( 0.1)                
  Equity contributions from noncontrolling interest holders                                                   4.2                        0.9                       —                     
  Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                                                         $                14.3      $            ( 21.8)      $            ( 11.5)  
  Effect of exchange rate changes on cash                                                                     ( 0.1)                     ( 0.3)                    —                     
  Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash                                       ( 10.7)                    ( 38.3)                   ( 34.8)               
  Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, beginning of period                                             53.9                       92.2                      127.0                 
  Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, end of period                                                   $                43.2      $               53.9      $               92.2  
  Summary of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within the consolidated balance sheets:                                                                                 
  Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                   $                42.9      $               52.8      $               84.5  
  Restricted cash                                                                                             0.3                        1.1                       6.1                   
  Restricted cash included in other assets                                                                    —                          —                         1.6                   
  Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash shown in the consolidated statements of cash flows        $                43.2      $               53.9      $               92.2  
  Cash paid during the year for:                                                                                                                                                         
  Interest                                                                                                    $                11.5      $                5.7      $                4.3  
  Income taxes                                                                                                7.1                        6.2                       14.8                  
  Non-cash investing and financing activities:                                                                                                                                           
  Property, plant and equipment included in liabilities                                                       4.9                        7.6                       3.4                   
  Advances for property, plant and equipment included in assets                                               0.7                        2.1                       1.4                   
  Finance leases of property, plant and equipment                                                             15.7                       0.5                       —                     
  Purchases from suppliers with payment terms greater than 90 days                                            1.4                        —                         —                     
  Elimination of loan receivable from Moruga upon consolidation (Note 3)                                      —                          1.9                       —                     

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

F-10

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Nature of Business

Mission Produce, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries (“Mission,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our”), is a global leader in the avocado industry. The Company’s expertise lies in the farming, packaging, marketing and distribution of avocados to food retailers, distributors and produce wholesalers worldwide. The Company procures avocados principally from California, Mexico and Peru. Through our various operating facilities, we grow, sort, pack, bag and ripen avocados and a small 
amount of other fruits for distribution to domestic and international markets. We report our results of operations in three

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of presentation and consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its consolidated subsidiaries and variable interest entity (“VIE”) for which we are the primary beneficiary and have a controlling interest. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”). All intercompany balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported balances in the consolidated financial statements in order to conform to current period presentation, including $1.0million in loans from noncontrolling interest holders, net of current portion in our consolidated balance sheets and related disclosures, that were previously reported in other long-term liabilities.

Consolidation of VIE

On May 1, 2022, a reconsideration event (explained in Note 3) occurred related to Moruga S.A.C., an entity for which we have a 60

Use of estimates

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash

The Company considers all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less and money market mutual funds to be cash equivalents. The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate their fair values.

Restricted cash represents cash and cash equivalents that are restricted to withdrawal or use as of the reporting date under contractual terms or regulatory requirements. As of October 31, 2023 and 2022, the restricted cash balances related to statutory requirements to support various programs at the Company’s farms. Restricted cash is included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statements of cash flows.

Trade accounts receivable

Trade accounts receivable are reported at amounts due from customers, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts to reflect its estimate of the uncollectability of the trade accounts receivable based on past collection history, the identification of specific potential customer risks, and other factors.

Grower and fruit advances

The Company makes advances to growers and foreign suppliers who supply fruit to the Company. Such advances reduce amounts otherwise due to the growers or suppliers for fruit sales.

F-11

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Other accounts receivable

Other accounts receivable represent non-trade receivables and primarily consist of value-added taxes (“VAT”) collected on behalf of tax authorities. 11.8 14.4

Inventory

Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the first-in, first-out method for finished goods and raw materials. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation.

Crop growing costs are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value and are deferred and charged to cost of goods sold when the related crop is harvested and sold. The deferred crop growing costs included in inventory consist primarily of orchard maintenance costs such as cultivation, irrigation, fertilization, soil amendments, pest control and pruning.

We assess the recoverability of inventories through an ongoing review of inventory levels in relation to sales and forecasts and product marketing plans. When the inventory on hand, at the time of review, exceeds the foreseeable demand, the value of inventory that is not expected to be sold is written down. The amount of the write-down is the excess of historical cost over estimated net realizable value. Once established, these write-downs are considered permanent adjustments to the cost basis 
of the excess inventory.

The assessment of the recoverability of inventories and the amounts of any write-downs are based on currently available information and assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Demand for avocados and other fruit may fluctuate significantly over time, and actual demand and market conditions may be more or less favorable than our projections. In the event that actual demand is lower than originally projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required.

Property, plant and equipment, net

Property, plant and equipment, net is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method using rates based upon the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Orchards, trees and bushes refer to avocado, mangos and blueberry plants, which accumulate planting and development costs that are capitalized into their basis until they become commercially productive, at which point the asset begins depreciating, and future maintenance costs are 
expensed as incurred. If proceeds are obtained from sales of fruit before commercial production begins, the net proceeds are applied to the capitalized cost of the trees. Planting costs consist primarily of the costs to purchase and plant nursery stock. Development costs consist of cultivation, pruning, irrigation, labor, spraying and fertilization, and interest costs during the development period. Leased assets and leasehold improvements meeting certain criteria are capitalized and amortized 
over the shorter of the expected lease term or the useful life of the asset using the straight-line method.

                                                              October 31,                                      
  (In millions)                           Useful lives        2023                        2022                 
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Land                                                        $                157.9      $             141.4  
  Orchards/trees/bushes                   7 to 25 years       129.1                       102.0                
  Buildings and improvements              20 to 40 years      124.6                       120.1                
  Equipment                               3 to 20 years       235.8                       201.1                
  Construction-in-progress                                    29.0                        47.0                 
  Property, plant and equipment                               $                676.4      $             611.6  
  Accumulated depreciation                                    ( 153.2)                    ( 121.9)             
  Property, plant and equipment, net                          $                523.2      $             489.7  

Depreciation expense of property, plant and equipment, net was $ 31.3 24.0 20.4

Farming costs for nonproductive orchards

We lease land for the development of new orchards. During the development period, these costs are referred to as farming costs for nonproductive orchards and are expensed as incurred, and included in cost of sales in the consolidated statements of (loss) income. Interest accretion on finance lease liabilities is expensed as incurred and included in interest expense in the consolidated statements of (loss) income.

F-12

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Leases

We determine if an arrangement is or contains a lease at inception or modification of the arrangement. An arrangement is or contains a lease if there are identified assets and the right to control the use of an identified asset is conveyed for a period in exchange for consideration. Control over the use of the identified assets means the lessee has both the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset and the right to direct the use of the asset.

For leases where we are the lessee, we recognize the right-of-use (“ROU”) assets and lease liabilities for all leases other than those with a term of 12 months or less, as we have elected to apply the short-term lease recognition exemption. ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term. Lease liabilities represent our obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. ROU assets and lease liabilities are classified and recognized at the commencement date of 
a lease. Lease liabilities are measured based on the present value of fixed lease payments over the lease term. ROU assets consist of: (i) initial measurement of the lease liability; (ii) lease payments made to the lessor at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received; and (iii) initial direct costs incurred by us. Lease payments may vary because of changes in facts or circumstances occurring after the commencement, including changes in inflation indices. Variable lease 
payments are excluded from the measurement of ROU assets and lease liabilities and are recognized in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.

The discount rate used to determine the present value of the lease payments is the rate of interest that the lessee would have to pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term for an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment.

For income statement purposes, we recognize straight-line rent expense for operating leases. For finance leases, we recognize interest expense associated with the lease liability and depreciation expense associated with the ROU asset. For ROU assets held under finance leases and leasehold improvements, the estimated useful lives are limited to the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the term of the lease.

Many of our lease arrangements include options to extend the lease, which we do not include in the lease term unless we are reasonably certain to exercise it. We have lease arrangements with lease and non-lease components. From a lessee perspective, we have elected to apply the practical expedient to combine lease and related non-lease components, for all classes of underlying assets, and account for the combined contract as a lease component.

Equity method investees

We maintain investments in other fruit growers, packers and distributors. These investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting when we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee. Significant influence generally exists when we have an ownership interest representing between 20% and 50% of the voting stock of the investee. Under the equity method of accounting, investments are stated at initial cost and are adjusted for subsequent 
additional investments and our proportionate share of earnings or losses and distributions.

We review our investments for other-than temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) on a quarterly basis, or earlier if indicators of impairment arise. If an impairment of an equity method investment is determined to be other than temporary, we would record OTTI sufficient to reduce the investment’s carrying value to its fair value, which results in a new cost basis in the investment.

Long-lived assets

The Company evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any such asset may not be recoverable. Long-lived assets are assessed for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the future undiscounted net cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset being tested, an 
impairment is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the estimated fair value of the asset. The estimate of undiscounted cash flows is based upon, among other things, certain assumptions about future operating performance, growth rates and other factors. Estimates of undiscounted cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, technological changes, economic conditions, changes to the business model or changes in operating performance. 
For fiscal years 2023 and 2021, we did not identify any indicators of impairment that would have required the Company to test its long-lived assets for impairment. However, in the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company determined that there was an impairment indicator associated with our Peruvian farming operations asset group, however the undiscounted cash flows of the asset group exceeded its carrying value.

Goodwill

Our goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of business combinations over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill impairment testing requires significant judgment and management estimates, including, but not limited to, the determination of (i) the number of reporting units, (ii) the goodwill and other assets and liabilities to be allocated to the reporting units

F-13

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

and (iii) the fair values of the reporting units. The estimates and assumptions described above, along with other factors such as discount rates, will significantly affect the outcome of the impairment tests and the amounts of any resulting impairment losses. We may use either a qualitative or quantitative approach when testing a reporting unit’s goodwill for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter of each year, and between annual tests whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we use a qualitative approach and determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we would then perform the first step of the goodwill impairment test, which would consist primarily of a discounted cash flow (“DCF”) analysis and guideline publicly-traded companies (“GPC”) analysis to determine the fair value of the reporting unit.

Fair value of financial instruments

The Company applies the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 820, Fair Value Measurements, for fair value measurements of financial assets and financial liabilities and for fair value measurements of nonfinancial items that are recognized at fair value in the financial statements. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received when selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In 
determining the fair value for the assets and liabilities required or permitted to be recorded, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market in which it would transact, and it considers assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.

ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy that requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The framework has three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, giving the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to measurements involving significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements). 
The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:

Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;

Level 2: Quoted prices, other than those in Level 1, in markets that are not active or for similar assets and liabilities, or inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability;

Level 3: Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable (supported by little or no market activity).

There were no transfers between level 1, level 2 or level 3 measurements during the years ended October 31, 2023 and 2022.

We believe that the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses and short-term borrowings approximates fair value based on either their short-term nature or on terms currently available to the Company in financial markets. Due to current market rates, we believe that our long-term obligations have fair values that approximate carrying values. Refer to Note 14 for further information.

Interest rate swaps

The Company hasfourseparate interest rate swaps with a total notional amount of $100million to hedge changes in variable interest rates on the principal value of the Company’s term loans. The interest rate swaps carried fixed LIBOR rates ranging from1.75% to2.57%. Three of the four interest rate swaps matured during fiscal year 2023. As of October 31, 2023, the remaining interest swap notional amount of $25million carries a fixed rate of2.30% and matures in the second quarter of fiscal 2024. We 
account for the interest rate swaps in accordance with ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, as amended, which requires the recognition of all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets and measurement of those instruments at fair value. The Company has not designated the interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges, and as a result under the accounting guidance, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps have been recorded in other income 
(expense), net in the consolidated statements of (loss) income and changes in the asset or liability are presented in net cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flow. Refer to Note 14 for more details.

Revenue recognition

We recognize revenue according to the model under ASC 606, which requires the recognition of revenue when performance obligations to customers have been satisfied in amounts equal to the consideration to which we expect to be entitled.

For our customer contracts, we identify the performance obligations (products or services), determine the transaction price, allocate the contract transaction price to the performance obligations, and recognize the revenue when the performance obligation is fulfilled, which is when the product is shipped to or received by the customer, depending on the specific terms of the arrangement. Our revenues are recorded at a point in time. Revenue recognized from product sales is based primarily on 
purchase orders issued by customers which specify shipping terms and details of the transaction. The performance obligations in a given transaction are determined by the individual purchase orders with revenue recognized at the time that the performance obligations

F-14

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

have been satisfied. Shipping and handling activities that occur prior to the transfer of control of goods to the customer are treated as fulfillment activities related to the promise to transfer goods, rather than as performance obligations. Amounts collected from customers for sales and other similar taxes are excluded from the transaction price.

Most performance obligations are subject to customer acceptance. However, our customers have an implicit and explicit right to return products following acceptance, if they are found not to conform to the specifications generally agreed upon or detailed in the individual purchase orders. We evaluate the need for provisions related to product return allowances based on estimates and record such provisions as a reduction in revenue in the same period that revenue for the related transactions is 
recognized.

We routinely enter into consignment arrangements to purchase fruit from foreign suppliers in which we do not take legal title of the good prior to selling those goods to customers. The Company has evaluated its role in such transactions and has concluded that it has control of the products due to our ability to determine the sales price and our role as the primary obligor in the transactions with the end customer. As a result, we are deemed to act as the principal rather than the agent, and 
therefore recognize and report revenue on a gross basis for its consignment arrangements.

Stock-based compensation

The Company uses the fair value recognition method for accounting for stock-based compensation. Under the fair value recognition method, cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on the straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. When vesting is based on both service and a performance condition, expense relative to such awards is measured based on the grant date fair value of the award, 
adjusted for the probably of achievement at the reporting date. Forfeitures are recognized in the period they occur.

Stock-based awards primarily consist of restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance stock units (“PSUs”), the fair value of which is determined based on the market price of our common stock on the date of grant. See Note 13 for more information.

Advertising costs

Advertising costs are expensed when incurred and are included as a component of selling, general and administrative expense. 0.2 0.3

Employee benefits

We sponsor various defined contribution retirement plans for employees, the largest of which is the 401(k)-retirement plan in the U.S. Eligible employees can defer up to 60 100 3 50 3 5 1.0 0.9

Income taxes

The Company uses the liability method to account for income taxes as prescribed by ASC 740. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities as measured by the enacted tax rates which will be in effect when these differences reverse. Deferred tax expense (benefit) is the result of changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are adjusted to recognize the
effects of changes in tax laws or enacted tax rates in the period during which they are signed into law. The factors used to assess the Company’s ability to realize its deferred tax assets are the Company’s forecast of future taxable income and available tax planning strategies that could be implemented. Under ASC 740 a valuation allowance is required when it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized due to the inability to generate 
sufficient future taxable income of the correct character. Failure to achieve previously forecasted taxable income could affect the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets and could negatively impact the Company’s effective tax rate on future earnings.

We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.

Interest income or expense/penalties attributable to the overpayment or underpayment, respectively, of income taxes is recognized as an element of our provision for income taxes.

As a multinational corporation, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions, and the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in various taxing jurisdictions. If we

F-15

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

ultimately determine that the payment of these liabilities will be unnecessary, the liability will be reversed, and we will recognize a tax benefit during the period in which it is determined the liability no longer applies. Conversely, we record additional tax charges in a period in which it is determined that a recorded tax liability is less than the ultimate assessment is expected to be.

The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws and regulations themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Therefore, the actual liability for U.S. or foreign taxes may be materially different from management’s estimates, which could result in the need to record additional tax liabilities or potentially reverse 
previously recorded tax liabilities.

Foreign currency translation and remeasurement

Our foreign operations are subject to exchange rate fluctuations and foreign currency transaction costs. The functional currency for our most significant foreign subsidiaries is the United States dollar. When remeasuring from a local currency to the functional currency, monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates and non-monetary assets, liabilities and equity are remeasured at historical rates when remeasuring from a 
local currency to the functional currency. Sales and expenses are remeasured using weighted-average exchange rates for each period. Gains and losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are recognized in other (expense) income, net in the consolidated statements of (loss) income.

Earnings per share

We compute earnings per share (“EPS”) in accordance with ASC 260, which requires companies with complex capital structures to present basic and diluted EPS. Basic EPS is measured as net income attributable to us, divided by the weighted average shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is similar to basic EPS but presents the dilutive effect on a per share basis of contracts to issue shares (e.g., equity awards) as if they had been converted at the beginning of the periods presented, or 
issuance date, if later. The computation of diluted EPS includes the estimated impact of the exercise of contracts to purchase common stock using the treasury stock method. Potential shares that have an anti-dilutive effect (i.e., those that increase earnings per share or decrease loss per share) are excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS.

Risk concentration

Accounts receivable from a single customer represented 16 13 8 6 11 12

Sales to our top 10 customers amounted to approximately 65 59 18 13

Recently issued accounting standards

In December 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740) - Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures. The ASU requires that an entity disclose specific categories in the effective tax rate reconciliation as well as provide additional information for reconciling items that meet a quantitative threshold. Further, the ASU requires certain disclosures of state versus federal income tax expense and taxes paid. The 
amendments in this ASU are required to be adopted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024. Early adoption is permitted for annual financial statements that have not yet been issued. The amendments should be applied on a prospective basis although retrospective application is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of adoption on our financial disclosures.

In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280) - Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures. The ASU requires that an entity disclose significant segment expenses impacting profit and loss that are regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker. The update is required to be applied retrospectively to prior periods presented, based on the significant segment expense categories identified and disclosed in the period of adoption. The amendments in this 
ASU are required to be adopted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of adoption on our financial disclosures.

In September 2022, the FASB issued ASU 2022-04, Liabilities - Supplier Finance Programs (Topic 405), which among other things, requires certain disclosures for a buyer in a supplier finance program. Some of the amendments in this ASU are required to be adopted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years, and

F-16

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

others are required to be adopted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of adoption on our financial disclosures.

In March 2022, the FASB issued ASU, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) Troubled Debt Restructurings and Vintage Disclosures, which among other things, requires that entities disclose current-period gross write-offs by year of origination for financing receivables. The amendments in this ASU are required to be adopted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The impact of ASU 2022-02 is not expected to be material on 
our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

3. Business Combination

The Company owns a 60 900 1,500 50

The Amendment resulted in the consolidation of Moruga because the Company concluded that that Moruga was a VIE, and the Company could control the primary activities of Moruga and is the primary beneficiary of the entity. Upon consolidation, Moruga was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. In relation to our preexisting equity interest, we recognized a remeasurement gain of $ 2.0 60 28.2 30.2

Fair value allocation of Moruga

The fair value of Moruga is a Level 3 measurement in the fair value hierarchy. Management estimated the fair value of Moruga with the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist, using a combination of the GPC method under the market approach and the DCF method under the income approach. We applied an equal weighting to the value conclusions resulting from the two employed approaches, because there was sufficient information available to estimate fair value under both methods.

Under the GPC method, valuation multiples are calculated from the operating data and market metrics of the GPCs, and are then evaluated and adjusted based on the strengths and weaknesses of the entity relative to the comparable GPCs. The significant inputs used to estimate the fair value of the investment under the GPC method are the selected business enterprise value (“BEV”) to EBITDA multiple and BEV to revenue multiple. Of the derived multiples, we selected 8.0 1.1 9.1 9.2 1.1 0.7

Under the DCF method, the most significant inputs used to estimate the fair value are the cash flow projections, which are sensitive to the revenue projections, and the weighted average cost of capital ("WACC”) which is used to discount and present value the projected cash flows. For the revenue projections, we assumed a nearly flat annual growth rate based on the maturity of the existing blueberry plants for the discrete forecast period from 2023 to 2032, prior to reaching the terminal period. 
The WACC was estimated using a capital asset pricing model and the discount rate used to present value the future cash flows was 9

Goodwill represents the excess of the sum of the fair value of our previously held equity interest and the fair value of the noncontrolling interest, over the net of the acquisition-date values of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed. The goodwill is attributable to our expected ability to utilize our existing infrastructure and workforce in Peru during the complementary periods between avocado harvest and processing seasons. The goodwill recognized is not deductible for income tax 
purposes.

F-17

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date were as follows:

                                                                                   (In millions)            
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Fair value of 100% of Moruga                                                                 $      50.4  
  Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed:                               
  Inventory                                                                                  7.7            
  Other current assets                                                                       7.7            
  Property, plant and equipment                                                             29.6            
  Intangible asset                                                                           2.8            
  Other assets                                                                               5.6            
  Goodwill                                                                                  12.5            
  Current liabilities                                                                     ( 4.5)            
  Deferred tax liability                                                                  ( 3.0)            
  Other liabilities                                                                       ( 8.0)            
                                                                                               $      50.4  

The fair value of the noncontrolling interest in Moruga on the acquisition date was $ 20.2

4. Goodwill and Intangible Asset, net

Goodwill

Changes in the net carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment were as follows:

  (In millions)                                  International Farming                Blueberries                Total              
  Goodwill as of October 31, 2021                $                          76.4      $                —         $            76.4  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Business combination with Moruga (Note 3)      —                                    12.5                       12.5               
  Impairment                                     ( 49.5)                              —                          ( 49.5)            
  Goodwill as of October 31, 2022                $                          26.9      $                12.5      $            39.4  
  Goodwill as of October 31, 2023                $                          26.9      $                12.5      $            39.4  

The carrying amounts of goodwill as of October 31, 2023 and 2022 were net of accumulated impairment losses of $ 49.5

For the year ended October 31, 2023, management performed its annual goodwill impairment tests of its two

For the year ended October 31, 2022, management performed its annual goodwill impairment test on its Peruvian farming reporting unit within the International Farming segment. With the assistance of a third-party specialist, management performed a quantitative assessment of the fair value of the reporting unit using the GPC and DCF methods described above in Note 3. We applied an equal weighting to the value conclusions resulting from the two employed approaches, because there was sufficient 
information to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit under both methods. The selected BEV to EBITDA multiple used in the GPC method was 12.0 8.0 10.0 8.8 17.5 49.5

F-18

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

For the year ended October 31, 2021, the result of management’s annual impairment assessment indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value of the single reporting unit in the International Farming segment exceeded its carrying value.

Intangible asset, net

                                October 31,                                
  (In millions)                 2023                      2022             
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Intangible asset, gross       $                2.8      $           2.8  
  Accumulated amortization      ( 2.3)                    ( 0.8)           
  Intangible asset, net         $                0.5      $           2.0  

The intangible asset, net consists of a distributor relationship entirely attributed to the business combination with Moruga on May 1, 2022. The intangible asset has an amortizable life of 2 1.5 0.8 0.5

5. Inventory

Major classes of inventory were as follows:

                              October 31,                                
  (In millions)               2023                       2022            
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Finished goods              $                29.5      $         33.8  
  Crop growing costs          21.5                       19.5            
  Packaging and supplies      19.8                       19.8            
  Inventory                   $                70.8      $         73.1  

Inventory at October 31, 2023 and 2022 included a $ 0.5 0.7

6. Details of Certain Account Balances

Details of certain significant account balances in our consolidated financial statements are set forth below.

Accrued expenses

                                   October 31,                                
  (In millions)                           2023                2022            
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Employee-related                           $      12.8         $      16.3  
  Freight                                  4.5                 6.2            
  Outside fruit purchase                   2.7                 1.0            
  VAT and local taxes payable              0.3                 0.1            
  Legal settlement                         0.8                 0.8            
  Other                                    5.3                 5.7            
  Accrued expenses                           $      26.4         $      30.1  

F-19

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Other long-term liabilities

                                                         October 31,                                
  (In millions)                                          2023                       2022            
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Uncertain tax positions (1)                            $                19.4      $         17.1  
  Employee-related                                       1.4                        1.2             
  Trade payables to noncontrolling interest holders      4.5                        .6              
  Other                                                  1.1                        .3              
  Other long-term liabilities                            $                26.4      $         19.2  

(1) Includes uncertain tax positions related to both income taxes and other statutory tax reserves, plus related penalties and interest.

Other expense (income), net

                                                 Years Ended                                                              
                                                 October 31,                                                              
  (In millions)                                  2023                         2022                      2021              
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Gains on derivative financial instruments      $                ( 0.1)      $           ( 4.7)           $      ( 0.8)  
  Foreign currency transaction loss              1.8                          2.0                        1.6              
  Interest income                                ( 1.5)                       ( 1.7)                  ( 1.7)              
  Debt extinguishment costs                      —                            —                          0.1              
  Other                                          —                            —                       ( 0.5)              
  Other expense (income), net                    $                   0.2      $           ( 4.4)           $      ( 1.3)  

Other amounts attributable to noncontrolling interest holders

Amounts included in trade accounts receivable due from noncontrolling interest holders were $5.7million and $2.5million as of October 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Amounts included in trade accounts payable due to noncontrolling interest holders were $3.2million and $2.9million as of October 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.

7. Equity Method Investees

Henry Avocado

The Company owns a 49 4.0

Mr. Avocado

The Company owns a 33

Copaltas

The Company owns a 50

F-20

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Financial information for our equity method investees as of and for the years ended October 31 was as follows:

  (In millions)              Henry Avocado                 Mr. Avocado                Copaltas               Moruga (1)  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  2023                                                                                                                   
  Current assets                         $       49.5                $       5.6             $      0.9                  
  Long-term assets                    31.9                         5.0                    29.4                           
  Current liabilities                 25.8                         4.9                     1.8                           
  Long-term liabilities               12.4                         3.6                    18.6                           
  Sales                              263.4                        25.2                     0.3                           
  Gross profit                        32.9                         2.6                       —                           
  Net income (loss)                    9.4                      ( 0.5)                  ( 0.7)                           
  2022                                                                                                                   
  Current assets                         $       49.5                $       3.3             $      0.6                  
  Long-term assets                    16.0                         1.7                    20.6                           
  Current liabilities                 18.6                         3.9                     6.7                           
  Long-term liabilities                7.6                         0.6                     7.3                           
  Sales                              371.6                        20.5                     0.2               $           
  Gross profit                        33.4                         1.7                     0.2               7.1         
  Net income (loss)                   11.5                      ( 1.8)                  ( 0.7)               5.9         
  2021                                                                                                                   
  Sales                                  $      261.7                $      20.1             $      0.1      $           
  Gross profit                        24.6                         3.4                       —               10.5        
  Net income (loss)                    7.5                         0.5                  ( 0.2)               6.4         

(1) Selected financial information for Moruga is set forth for periods under which Moruga was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. As of October 31, 2023 and 2022, Moruga was consolidated.

The Company’s investments in its equity method investees have been impacted by the following:

  (In millions)                                                    Henry Avocado      Mr. Avocado      Copaltas      Moruga         Total  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Investment balance as of October 31, 2021                        $                  19.9 $           0.6 $         $                  $  
  Equity method income (losses)                                    5.6                ( 0.6)           ( 0.4)        0.5              5.1  
  Translation                                                      —                  —                ( 0.7)        —             ( 0.7)  
  Dividends received                                               ( 2.2)             —                —             —             ( 2.2)  
  Investment contributions                                         —                  0.2              0.2           —                0.4  
  Remeasurement gain                                               —                  —                —             2.0              2.0  
  Effect of consolidation with Mission Produce on May 1, 2022      —                  —                —             ( 30.2)      ( 30.2)  
  Investment balance as of October 31, 2022                        $                  23.3 $           0.2 $         $                  $  
  Equity method income (losses)                                    4.6                ( 0.2)           ( 0.4)                         4.0  
  Translation                                                      —                  —                0.5                            0.5  
  Dividends received                                               ( 2.7)             —                —                           ( 2.7)  
  Investment contributions                                         —                  0.7              1.4                            2.1  
  Investment balance as of October 31, 2023                        $                  25.2 $           0.7 $                            $  

8. Variable Interest Entity

Assets of our variable interest in Moruga may only be used to settle its own liabilities and creditors of Moruga only have recourse for the liabilities of Moruga. A summary of these balances, which are wholly included in our consolidated balance sheets, is as follows:

F-21

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                             October 31,            
  (In millions)                     2023      2022  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Current assets                       $         $  
  Long-term assets                  69.9      40.9  
  Current liabilities               17.0      17.3  
  Long-term liabilities             25.4       5.6  

9. Debt

Credit facility

In October 2022, the Company entered into a third amendment to its syndicated credit facility with Bank of America (the “BoA credit facility”) Merrill Lynch, originally dated October 2018, as amended in September 2020 and April 2022. The credit facility has a total borrowing capacity of $ 250 two 100 150 1.5 2.5 125 0.18 0.3

The credit facility requires the Company to comply with financial and other covenants, including limitations on investments, capital expenditures, dividend payments, amounts and types of liens and indebtedness, and material asset sales. The Company is also required to maintain certain leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. As of October 31, 2023, the Company was in compliance with all covenants of the credit facility.

Long-term debt under the BoA credit facility consisted of the following:

                                                                                                                                                                                                            October 31,                                    
  (In millions)                                                                                                                                                                                                    2023                   2022             
  Revolving line of credit. The interest rate is variable, based on SOFR plus a spread that varies with the Company’s leverage ratio. As of October 31, 2023 and 2022 the interest rate was 7.42% a...                $       55.0           $       40.0  
  Senior term loan (A-1). The interest rate is variable, based on SOFR plus a spread that varies with the Company’s leverage ratio. As of October 31, 2023 and 2022, the interest rate was 7.42% an...             47.5                   50.0             
  Senior term loan (A-2). The interest rate is variable, based on SOFR plus a spread that varies with the Company’s leverage ratio. As of October 31, 2023 and 2022, the interest rate was 7.67% an...             49.5                   50.0             
  Note payable to BoA. Payable in monthly installments including interest at a fixed rate of 3.96% as of both October 31, 2023 and 2022. Principal is due July 2024.                                                0.4                    1.0             
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Total long-term debt                                                                                                                                                                                            152.4                  141.0             
  Less debt issuance costs                                                                                                                                                                                       ( 0.4)                 ( 0.6)             
  Long-term debt, net of debt issuance costs                                                                                                                                                                      152.0                  140.4             
  Less current portion of long-term debt                                                                                                                                                                         ( 3.4)                 ( 3.5)             
  Long-term debt, net of current portion                                                                                                                                                                              $      148.6           $      136.9  

Other

Certain of our consolidated subsidiaries may also enter into short-term bank borrowings from time to time. Short-term borrowings outstanding were $ 2.8 2.5 10.46 6.65 5.0 6.5

F-22

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Company may issue standby letters of credit through banking institutions. As of October 31, 2023, total letters of credit outstanding were $ 0.7

As of October 31, 2023, future principal payments for our total debt were as follows:

  Year ending October 31,      (In millions)             
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                     2024                  $        6.1  
                     2025                3.0             
                     2026                3.0             
                     2027               95.5             
                     2028                8.8             
               Thereafter               38.8             
                                           $      155.2  

10. Leases

We lease facilities, land, fleet and other industrial equipment under both operating and finance leases, expiring at various dates through 2048. Certain of these leases have clauses such as extension options, stipulated escalation provisions, early termination, and payment obligations for property taxes, insurance, maintenance and other costs.

Lease-related assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets as of October 31, 2023 and 2022 were as follows:

                                                                             October 31,                                
  (In millions)                Location on Consolidated Balance Sheets       2023                       2022            
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Assets                                                                                                                
  Operating                    Operating lease right-of-use assets           $                72.4      $         65.4  
  Finance                      Property, plant and equipment, net            18.1                       3.8             
  Total lease assets                                                         $                90.5      $         69.2  
  Liabilities                                                                                                           
  Current                                                                                                               
  Operating                    Operating leases—current portion              $                 6.6      $          4.7  
  Finance                      Finance leases—current portion                2.6                        1.2             
  Noncurrent                                                                                                            
  Operating                    Operating leases, net of current portion      71.0                       63.9            
  Finance                      Finance leases, net of current portion        14.7                       1.4             
  Total lease liabilities                                                    $                94.9      $         71.2  

F-23

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Most lease costs are recognized in the consolidated statements of (loss) income, however, costs qualifying for capitalization, such as lease costs for land or equipment used in the development of orchards, are recognized into property, plant and equipment or inventory. A summary of lease costs is set forth below:

  (In millions)                            Inventory                        Property, plant and equipment      Cost of sales                Selling, general and administrative expenses               Total  
                                           Year ended October 31, 2023                                                                                                                                        
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Operating leases                                                                                                                                                                                            
  Lease cost                               $                                $                                  $                   8.4      $                                                 1.8      $      
  Variable lease cost                      —                                —                                  2.4                          —                                                          2.4    
  Short-term lease cost                    1.6                              4.1                                15.6                         1.5                                                        22.8   
  Finance leases                                                                                                                                                                                              
  Amortization of right-of-use assets      —                                —                                  1.3                          0.1                                                        1.4    
  Interest on lease liabilities            —                                —                                  —                            —                                                          1.5    
  Total lease cost                         $                                $                                  $                  27.7      $                                                 3.4      $      
                                           Year ended October 31, 2022                                                                                                                                        
  Operating leases                                                                                                                                                                                            
  Lease cost                               $                                $                                  $                   6.4      $                                                 1.6      $      
  Variable lease cost                      —                                —                                  1.9                          —                                                          1.9    
  Short-term lease cost                    1.9                              3.5                                11.5                         1.0                                                        17.9   
  Finance leases                                                                                                                                                                                              
  Amortization of right-of-use assets      —                                —                                  0.5                          0.2                                                        0.7    
  Interest on lease liabilities            —                                —                                  —                            —                                                          0.2    
  Total lease cost                         $                                $                                  $                  20.3      $                                                 2.8      $      
                                           Year ended October 31, 2021                                                                                                                                        
  Operating leases                                                                                                                                                                                            
  Lease cost                               $                                $                                  $                   3.9      $                                                 2.6      $      
  Variable lease cost                      —                                —                                  0.8                          0.1                                                        0.9    
  Short-term lease cost                    1.3                              2.7                                13.2                         0.8                                                        18.0   
  Finance leases                                                                                                                                                                                              
  Amortization of right-of-use assets      —                                —                                  0.7                          0.4                                                        1.1    
  Interest on lease liabilities            —                                —                                  —                            —                                                          0.3    
  Total lease cost                         $                                $                                  $                  18.6      $                                                 3.9      $      

Supplemental cash flow information related to leases is set forth below:

                                                                                                                                       Years ended October 31,                      
  (In millions)                                                                                                                        2023                         2022      2021  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities for operating cash flows for operating lease liabilities      $                            $         $     
  Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new operating lease liabilities                                                         12.2                         23.1      11.3  

As of October 31, 2023, future maturities of lease liabilities with original terms in excess of one year were as follows:

                                                        (In millions)                                              
  Year ending October 31,                               Operating Leases                 Finance Leases            
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  2024                                                  $                       9.0      $                    2.5  
  2025                                                  8.5                              1.6                       
  2026                                                  8.0                              1.5                       
  2027                                                  7.5                              1.5                       
  2028                                                  7.0                              1.5                       
  Thereafter                                            79.7                             34.0                      
  Total undiscounted future minimum lease payments      $                     119.7      $                   42.6  
  Less imputed interest                                 ( 42.1)                          ( 25.3)                   
  Total discounted future minimum lease payments        $                      77.6      $                   17.3  

F-24

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Weighted average remaining lease terms and weighted average discount rates as of October 31, 2023 were as follows:

                                                        Operating Leases      Finance Leases  
  Weighted average remaining lease term (in years)      15.8                  23.4            
  Weighted average discount rate                        5.4                   9.4             

11. Commitments and Contingencies

Litigation

We are from time to time involved in legal proceedings and investigations arising in the ordinary course of business, including those relating to employment matters, relationships with clients and contractors, intellectual property disputes and other business matters.

On April 23, 2020, former Mission Produce, Inc. employees filed a class action lawsuit in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles against us alleging violation of certain wage and labor laws in California, including failure to pay all overtime wages, minimum wage violations, and meal and rest period violations, among others. Additionally, on June 10, 2020, former Mission Produce, Inc. employees filed a class action lawsuit in the Superior Court of the State of
California for the County of Ventura against us alleging similar violations of certain wage and labor laws. The plaintiffs in both cases seek damages primarily consisting of class certification and payment of wages earned and owed, plus other consequential and special damages. While the Company believes that it did not violate any wage or labor laws, it nevertheless decided to settle these class action lawsuits. In May 2021, the plaintiffs in both class action lawsuits and the Company agreed 
preliminarily to a comprehensive settlement to resolve both class action cases for a total of $ 0.8

The outcomes of our legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, subject to significant uncertainties, and if one or more legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts above management’s expectations, the Company’s financial condition and operating results for that period could be materially adversely affected.

12. Income Taxes

The components of the provision for income taxes were as follows:

                                  Years Ended                                                    
                                  October 31,                                                    
  (In millions)                          2023                 2022               2021            
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Current                                                                                        
  Federal                                   $      3.2           $      0.5         $       2.2  
  State                                   0.6               ( 0.1)                0.6            
  Foreign                                 4.8                  3.9                9.5            
  Total current                           8.6                  4.3               12.3            
  Deferred                                                                                       
  Federal                              ( 2.9)                  0.7                2.6            
  State                                ( 0.1)                  0.2                0.3            
  Foreign                              ( 3.4)               ( 1.5)                5.9            
  Total deferred                       ( 6.4)               ( 0.6)                8.8            
  Provision for income taxes                $      2.2           $      3.7         $      21.1  

F-25

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

U.S. and foreign components of (loss) income before income taxes were as follows:

                                         Years Ended                                                            
                                         October 31,                                                            
  (In millions)                          2023                         2022                      2021            
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  U.S.                                   $                   8.2      $                1.9      $         20.8  
  Foreign                                ( 9.1)                       ( 33.1)                   45.2            
  (Loss) income before income taxes      $                ( 0.9)      $            ( 31.2)      $         66.0  

A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes computed at the federal statutory tax rate to income taxes as reflected in the financial statements is as follows. Certain reconciling items that were presented in other, net in previous periods have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.

                                                         Years Ended                           
                                                         October 31,                           
                                                                2023         2022        2021  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Federal statutory rate                                        21.0         21.0        21.0  
  State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit             ( 37.4)       ( 0.7)         1.0  
  GILTI                                                            —       ( 1.9)         2.3  
  Non-deductible executive compensation                      ( 38.7)       ( 0.9)         0.5  
  Foreign rate differential                                  ( 16.0)          0.4      ( 1.2)  
  Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation          ( 14.6)            —      ( 0.2)  
  Prior year adjustments                                      ( 7.0)          1.2         0.7  
  Change in valuation allowance                             ( 142.5)       ( 0.8)      ( 1.1)  
  Foreign tax credits                                              —          0.8      ( 0.9)  
  Peru income tax rate change                                      —          1.8         8.3  
  Change in unrecognized tax benefits                        ( 60.7)       ( 2.8)         0.9  
  Mexican advance payment write-off                         ( 190.3)            —           —  
  ASC 740-30 (formerly APB 23) change                          189.1            —           —  
  Goodwill impairment                                              —      ( 33.4)           —  
  Moruga fair value remeasurement                                  —          1.4           —  
  Other, net                                                    40.5          1.9         0.7  
  Effective tax rate (1)                                    ( 256.6)      ( 12.0)        32.0  

(1) May not sum due to rounding.

F-26

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Deferred taxes are recognized for temporary differences between the basis of assets and liabilities for financial statement and income tax purposes. The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:

                                                      October 31,                              
  (In millions)                                              2023           2022               
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Accrued expenses                                              $          4.9 $          4.6  
  Net operating loss and other carryforwards                  7.0            1.4               
  Business interest limitation carryforward                   0.7              —               
  Inventory                                                   0.6            0.6               
  Operating lease liabilities                                16.0           13.8               
  Allowances, reserves, and other                             1.3            1.4               
  Total deferred tax assets                                  30.5           21.8               
  Less: valuation allowance                                ( 1.9)         ( 0.7)               
  Total net deferred tax assets                                 $         28.6 $         21.1  
  Equity interest in unconsolidated subsidiaries           ( 3.8)         ( 3.4)               
  Interest rate swaps                                      ( 0.1)         ( 0.6)               
  Property, plant and equipment                           ( 24.7)        ( 23.8)               
  Operating lease right-of-use assets                     ( 15.0)        ( 13.1)               
  Repatriation of foreign earnings                              —         ( 1.5)               
  Total deferred tax liabilities                          ( 43.6)        ( 42.4)               
  Total net deferred tax assets/(liabilities)                   $      ( 15.0) $      ( 21.3)  

As of October 31, 2023, the Company had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $ 27.5 26.8

The net change in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets was $( 1.2 0.2

As of October 31, 2023, the Company has released its previously recorded deferred tax liability of $ 1.5 28.1 156.1

The Company may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position claimed on a tax return only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.

A reconciliation of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits (exclusive of interest and penalties) is as follows:

                                                   October 31,                              
  (In millions)                                    2023                      2022           
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Unrecognized tax benefits beginning of year      $                6.7      $         6.1  
  Increases related to prior year positions        0.2                       0.5            
  Foreign currency remeasurement                   0.7                       0.1            
  Unrecognized tax benefits end of year            $                7.6      $         6.7  

If recognized, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of October 31, 2023 and 2022 would impact the effective tax rate. There is potential for significant changes to unrecognized tax benefits by the end of fiscal year 2023 with regards to the 2013 tax assessment as discussed below.

The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. The Company recorded $ 1.1 0.6 0.9 9.4 8.3

F-27

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

accrued as of October 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, which have been included in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.

We conduct business both domestically and internationally and, as a result, one or more of our subsidiaries files income tax returns in U.S. federal, U.S. state and certain foreign jurisdictions. Accordingly, in the normal course of business, we are subject to examination by taxing authorities, primarily in the United States, Mexico and Peru. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal tax examinations for the fiscal years prior to and including October 31, 2019, nor is it subject to U.S. 
state income tax examinations for fiscal years prior to and including October 31, 2018. The Company is no longer subject to income tax examinations in Mexico for calendar years prior to and including December 31, 2017, except for the 2013 calendar year, which is under audit as discussed below. The Company is no longer subject to income tax examinations in Peru for calendar years prior to and including December 31, 2017.

The Company’s wholly owned subsidiary in Mexico is currently under audit for the fiscal year 2013 and received certain proposed adjustments during fiscal year 2018 from the Mexican taxing authorities pertaining to disallowed deductions. During June 2018, the Company filed an administrative appeal challenging the 2013 tax assessment, which in June 2019 the authorities issued a resolution revoking the tax assessment and ordering the tax auditors to appraise some evidence and re-issue a new 
assessment in connection with one of the intermediaries. The Mexican subsidiary filed a tax lawsuit since the tax auditors did not appraise the evidence offered in connection with a significant portion of the disallowed deductions, which the Company is currently waiting for the resolution of the trial. The Company believes that is has adequately provided taxes for this matter.

In March 2020, the Company's wholly owned subsidiary in Mexico made an advance payment of income taxes related to disallowed deductions for tax years 2014-2017, which the Company paid but then immediately challenged in Court. At the time of payment and during the litigation the Company did not record an unrecognized tax benefit related to the deduction because we believed it was more likely than not that the tax position would be sustained. The case was lost in fiscal year 2023 and management 
decided not to appeal; accordingly, a $ 1.7

On December 30, 2020, Peru enacted tax law repealing current tax law which provided benefits to agribusiness entities. The new law subjects us to higher Peruvian corporate income tax rates than the rate in effect on the date of repeal of 15%, as follows: 20% for calendar years 2023 to 2024, 25% for calendar years 2025 to 2027, and 29.5% thereafter. We remeasured our deferred tax balances based on the applicable tax rate in the year the deferred balances are expected to reverse. The increase to 
the net deferred tax liability for the change in Peruvian tax rate resulted in a $ 5.4

In December 2021, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”), which is an international public policy setting organization comprised of member countries including the U.S., published a proposal for the establishment of a global minimum tax rate of 15% (the “Pillar Two rule”). The OECD has recommended that the Pillar Two rule become effective for fiscal years beginning after January 1, 2024, which is our fiscal 2025. To date, member states are in various stages of 
implementation and the OECD continues to refine technical guidance. We are closely monitoring developments of the Pillar Two rule and are currently evaluating the potential impact in each of the countries we operate in.

13. Shareholders’ Equity

2020 Incentive Award Plan

On October 1, 2020, our Board of Directors adopted the 2020 Incentive Award Plan (“2020 Plan”), which provides for the grant of equity awards, including stock options, RSUs, and PSUs to directors, employees, consultants, and certain of our affiliates. The terms of awards may vary based on the grantee classification, or nature of the award, such as awards contingent upon discrete events, or awards related to continuing employment. Upon adoption of the 2020 Plan, the Company’s former stock 
incentive plan was simultaneously closed, and all shares subject to awards outstanding and shares available for issuance were transferred to, or became available for issuance under the 2020 Plan. A maximum of 9,880,190 8,154,357

Stock-based compensation

Stock-based compensation expense is recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of (loss) income. Total stock-based compensation expense under these plans and the total related recognized tax benefit were as follows:

F-28

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                            Years Ended                      
                                                                            October 31,                      
  (In millions)                                                                    2023      2022      2021  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  RSUs                                                                                $      $         $     
  PSUs                                                                              0.1      0.3       —     
  Stock options                                                                     1.0      1.3       1.5   
  Total stock-based compensation expense under incentive plans, pretax              4.5      3.6       2.6   
  Tax benefit                                                                       0.4      —         0.1   

Unrecognized stock-based compensation expense as of October 31, 2023 was $ 6.7 1.3

RSUs

RSUs are service-based awards granted under the 2020 Plan to eligible employees and non-employees. RSUs are expected to be settled with shares of the Company’s common stock. Vesting and forfeiture conditions are specific to each grant as determined by the plan administrator. The fair value of RSUs is determined based on the market price of our common stock on the date of grant.

Employees

RSUs granted to eligible employees generally vest ratably over three four years 11.87 15.88 20.87

Activity for awards during the year ended October 31, 2023 was as follows:

                                                Units      Weighted average grant-date fair value per unit             
                                       (in thousands)                                                                  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Outstanding at October 31, 2022                 280      $                                                    15.99  
  Granted                                         375      11.87                                                       
  Vested                                        ( 98)      15.65                                                       
  Forfeited                                     ( 40)      11.85                                                       
  Outstanding at October 31, 2023                 517      $                                                    13.38  

Board of Directors

Under our Director Compensation Plan, new directors receive an initial sign-on grant and continuing directors receive an automatic annual grant on the date of each Annual Shareholders’ Meeting, set to cliff-vest at the earlier of one year following the grant date or at the subsequent Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Directors are also eligible to defer the distribution of shares between two five years$ 11.18,$ 13.08, and$ 19.89, respectively.

Activity for RSU awards for directors during the year ended October 31, 2023 was as follows:

                                                        Units      Weighted average grant-date fair value per unit             
                                               (in thousands)                                                                  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Outstanding at October 31, 2022                          68      $                                                    12.90  
  Granted                                                  73      11.18                                                       
  Vested                                                ( 68)      12.90                                                       
  Forfeited                                                 —      —                                                           
  Outstanding at October 31, 2023                          73      $                                                    11.18  
  Vested and deferred at October 31, 2023                  34      $                                                    14.94  

F-29

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

PSUs

PSUs are performance-based awards granted to eligible employees under the 2020 Plan. PSUs are expected to be settled with shares of the Company’s common stock at the end of a three-year 0 200

The weighted average grant date fair value of PSUs granted in the years ended October 31, 2023 and 2022 was $ 11.90 15.89 Activity for PSU awards during the year ended October 31, 2023 was as follows.

                                             Units      Weighted average grant-date fair value per unit             
                                    (in thousands)                                                                  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Unvested at October 31, 2022                  95      $                                                    15.89  
  Granted at target                            177      11.90                                                       
  Vested                                         —      —                                                           
  Forfeited                                  ( 20)      12.27                                                       
  Unvested at October 31, 2023                 252      $                                                    13.38  

Stock options

No stock options were granted during the years ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. Historical grants of stock options were predominantly made in connection with our IPO. Stock options vest based on tenure of employment or other specific events and expire 10 1.1 1.4 1.3 0.1 0.2

CEO Award

Stock option activity for an award granted to our CEO in 2019, prior to our initial public offering (“CEO Award”) during the year ended October 31, 2023 was as follows:

                                                                  Weighted-average                 Weighted-average      Aggregate        
                                                                  exercise price                     remaining life      intrinsic value  
                                                                                                         (in years)      (in millions)    
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Outstanding at October 31, 2022                      1,700      $                     13.74                                             
  Granted                                                                                                                                 
  Exercised                                                                                                                               
  Forfeited                                                                                                                               
  Outstanding at October 31, 2023                      1,700      $                     13.74                   5.7      $                
  Vested and expected to vest at October 31, 2023      1,700      $                     13.74                   5.7      $                
  Exercisable at October 31, 2023                      1,530      $                     13.74                   5.7      $                

                                    Number of options      Weighted average grant-date fair value            
                                    (in thousands)                                                           
  Granted                           —                      —                                                 
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Unvested at October 31, 2022      340                    $                                           5.35  
  Vested                            ( 170)                 5.35                                              
  Forfeited                         —                      —                                                 
  Unvested at October 31, 2023      170                    $                                           5.35  

F-30

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Employees

Stock options to employees (excluding the CEO) generally have ratable vesting over four years Activity for these awards during the year ended October 31, 2023 was as follows:

                                                       Number of options      Weighted-average                 Weighted-average      Aggregate        
                                                          (in thousands)      exercise price                     remaining life      intrinsic value  
                                                                                                                     (in years)      (in millions)    
  Granted                                                              —      —                                                                       
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Outstanding at October 31, 2022                                    448      $                     11.69                                             
  Exercised                                                        ( 19)      4.78                                                                    
  Forfeited                                                        ( 10)      12.00                                                                   
  Expired                                                          ( 40)      12.00                                                                   
  Outstanding at October 31, 2023                                    379      $                     12.00                   6.9      $                
  Vested and expected to vest at October 31, 2023                    379      12.00                                         6.9      —                
  Exercisable at October 31, 2023                                    280      $                     12.00                   6.9      $                

                                    Number of options      Weighted average grant-date fair value            
                                       (in thousands)                                                        
  Granted                                           —      —                                                 
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Unvested at October 31, 2022                    208      $                                           3.61  
  Vested                                        ( 99)      3.61                                              
  Forfeited                                     ( 10)      3.61                                              
  Unvested at October 31, 2023                     99      $                                           3.61  

Dividends

If we do not comply with certain covenants under our credit facility, our ability to pay dividends in the future could be limited.

Stock Repurchase Program

On September 6, 2023, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, which permits the Company to repurchase up to $ 20 36 19.4

14. Fair Value Measurements

Financial assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis included in the consolidated balance sheets were as follows:

                          October 31, 2023                                                            October 31, 2022                                      
  (In millions)           Total                 Quoted Prices      Significant      Significant       Total                 Quoted Prices      Significant  
                                                in Active          Other            Unobservable                            in Active          Other        
                                                Markets            Observable       Inputs                                  Markets            Observable   
                                                (Level 1)          Inputs           (Level 3)                               (Level 1)          Inputs       
                                                                   (Level 2)                                                                   (Level 2)    
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Assets                                                                                                                                                    
  Mutual funds            $                     $                  $                $                 $                     $                  $            
  Interest rate swap      0.4                   —                  0.4              —                 2.6                   —                  2.6          

F-31

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Our mutual fund investments relate to our deferred compensation plan, which are held in a Rabbi trust which is included in other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. The funds are measured at quoted prices in active markets, which is equivalent to their fair value.

The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined using widely accepted valuation techniques, including the DCF method. The analysis reflects the contractual terms of the swaps, including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves (“significant other observable inputs”). The fair value calculation also includes an amount for risk of non-performance using “significant unobservable inputs” such as estimates of current credit spreads to 
evaluate the likelihood of default. The Company has concluded, as of October 31, 2023 and 2022, that the fair value associated with the “significant unobservable inputs” relating to the Company’s risk of non-performance was insignificant to the overall fair value of the interest rate swap agreements and, as a result, the Company has determined that the relevant inputs for purposes of calculating the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements, in their entirety, were based upon “significant 
other observable inputs”. The assets associated with the interest rate swaps have been included in prepaid and other current assets other assets

15. Earnings Per Share

                                                                                                         Years Ended                                                                      
                                                                                                         October 31,                                                                      
                                                                                                         2023                             2022                      2021                  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Numerator:                                                                                                                                                                              
  Net (loss) income attributable to Mission Produce (in millions)                                        $                    ( 2.8)      $            ( 34.6)      $               44.9  
  Denominator:                                                                                                                                                                            
  Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding, used in computing basic earnings per share                         70,750,239                70,647,469                70,583,424  
  Effect of dilutive stock options                                                                       —                                —                                      466,227  
  Effect of dilutive RSUs                                                                                —                                —                                       18,830  
  Weighted average shares of common stock outstanding, used in computing diluted earnings per share                       70,750,239                70,647,469                71,068,481  
  Earnings per share                                                                                                                                                                      
  Basic                                                                                                  $                   ( 0.04)      $            ( 0.49)      $               0.64  
  Diluted                                                                                                $                   ( 0.04)      $            ( 0.49)      $               0.63  

Equity awards representing shares of common stock outstanding that were excluded in the computation of diluted earnings per share because their effect would have been anti-dilutive as a result of applying the treasury stock method, were as follows:

                                   Years Ended                                                               
                                   October 31,                                                               
                                          2023                     2022                   2021               
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Anti-dilutive stock options                       2,097,239                606,453                145,735  
  Anti-dilutive RSUs                                  588,266                200,681                 24,540  

F-32

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

16. Related Party Transactions

Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated financial statements were as follows:

                                Consolidated Balance Sheets                                               Consolidated Statements of (Loss) Income                                                                                                                 
                                Accounts receivable              Accounts payable & accrued expenses      Net sales                                              Cost of sales      Selling, general and administrative expenses      Other (expense) income, net  
  (In millions)                 October 31, 2023                                                          Year ended October 31, 2023                                                                                                                              
  Equity method investees:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  Henry Avocado                 $                                $                                        $                                             1.8      $                  $                                                 $                            
  Mr. Avocado                   2.9                              —                                        8.8                                                    —                  —                                                 —                            
  Other:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  Directors/officers (1)        0.1                              0.2                                      1.0                                                    2.9                —                                                 —                            
  Employees (2)                 —                                0.5                                      —                                                      9.1                —                                                 —                            
                                October 31, 2022                                                          Year ended October 31, 2022                                                                                                                              
  Equity method investees:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  Henry Avocado                 $                                $                                        $                                             2.7      $                  $                                                 $                            
  Mr. Avocado                   1.5                              —                                        2.7                                                    —                  —                                                 —                            
  Copaltas (3)                  —                                —                                        —                                                      —                  —                                                 0.1                          
  Moruga (4)                    —                                —                                        4.1                                                    —                  —                                                 —                            
  Other:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  Directors/officers (1)        0.1                              2.5                                      1.0                                                    5.8                —                                                 —                            
  Employees (2)                 —                                0.4                                      —                                                      6.2                —                                                 —                            
                                                                                                          Year ended October 31, 2021                                                                                                                              
  Equity method investees:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  Henry Avocado                                                                                           $                                             4.4      $                  $                                                 $                            
  Mr. Avocado                                                                                             4.3                                                    —                  —                                                 —                            
  Copaltas (3)                                                                                            —                                                      —                  —                                                 0.1                          
  Moruga (4)                                                                                              6.1                                                    —                  —                                                 0.4                          
  Other:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  Directors/officers (1)                                                                                  2.5                                                    3.5                0.1                                               —                            
  Employees (2)                                                                                           —                                                      9.6                —                                                 —                            

(1) The Company purchases from and sells avocados to, and provides logistics services to, a small number of entities having full or partial ownership by some of our directors/officers. These transactions are made under substantially similar terms as with other growers and customers. In November 2022, Moruga entered into a long-term land lease with a company owned by one of our directors. The rental rate in the lease was comparable to market rates and reflective of an arms-length transaction. The
lease was accounted for as a finance lease right-of-use asset and is included in property, plant and equipment, net in the consolidated balance sheets, with amortization and interest expense recognized in cost of sales and interest expense, respectively, in the consolidated statements of (loss) income. The portion of lease costs attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of income taxes, was $ 0.6 20 0.2

(2) The Company utilizes a small number of transportation vendors in Mexico having full or partial ownership by some of our employees. The Company also purchases avocados from a small number of entities having full or partial ownership by some employees. These transactions are made under substantially similar terms as with other transportation carriers and growers.

(3) The Company has provided loans to Copaltas to support growth and expansion projects, bearing interest at 6.66

(4) Effective May 1, 2022, Moruga was prospectively consolidated into the Company’s financial statements (refer to Note 3 for more details), at which time transactions between parties were prospectively eliminated in the consolidation of our financial statements. Transactions prior to consolidation are presented the same as in prior periods. The Company provides packing and cooling services for blueberries and leases owned land to Moruga. The Company has also provided loans to Moruga to support 
growth and expansion projects, bearing interest at 6.5

17. Segment and Revenue Information

We have three

F-33

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

•Marketing and Distribution. Our Marketing and Distribution reportable segment sources fruit from growers and then distributes the fruit through our global distribution network.

•International Farming. International Farming owns and operates orchards from which the vast majority of fruit produced is sold to our Marketing and Distribution segment. The segment’s farming activities range from cultivating early-stage plantings to harvesting from mature trees. It also earns service revenues for packing and processing fruit for both our Blueberries segment, as well as for third-party producers of other crops. Operations are principally located in Peru, with smaller operations
emerging in other areas of Latin America.

• Blueberries. The Blueberries segment represents the results of Moruga, subsequent to its consolidation on May 1, 2022. Moruga’s farming activities include cultivating early-stage blueberry plantings and harvesting mature bushes. Substantially all blueberries produced are sold to a single distributor under an exclusive marketing agreement.

The CEO evaluates and monitors segment performance primarily through segment sales and segment adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA refers to net income (loss), before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization expense, stock-based compensation expense, other income (expense), and income (loss) from equity method investees, further adjusted by asset impairment and disposals, net of insurance recoveries, farming costs for nonproductive orchards (which represents land lease costs), 
certain noncash and nonrecurring ERP costs, transaction costs, material legal settlements, amortization of inventory adjustments recognized from business combinations, and any special, non-recurring, or one-time items such as remeasurements or impairments, and any portion of these items attributable to the noncontrolling interest, all of which are excluded from the results the CEO reviews uses to assess segment performance and results. We believe that adjusted EBITDA by segment provides useful 
information for analyzing the underlying business results as well as allowing investors a means to evaluate the financial results of each reportable segment in relation to the Company as a whole. These measures are not in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for or superior to, the comparable GAAP financial measures.

Net sales from each of our reportable segments were as follows.

                                 Marketing & Distribution      International Farming      Total        International Farming      Total        International Farming      Total    
                                 Years ended October 31,                                                                                                                           
  (In millions)                  2023                                                                                                                                              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Third party sales              $                             $                          $            $                          $            $                          $        
  Affiliated sales               —                             78.6                       78.6         95.6                       95.6         84.9                       84.9     
  Total segment sales            $                             $                          $            $                          $            $                          $        
  Intercompany eliminations      —                             ( 78.6)                    ( 78.6)      ( 95.6)                    ( 95.6)      ( 84.9)                    ( 84.9)  
  Total net sales                $                             $                          $            $                          $            $                          $        

(1) The Blueberries segment was consolidated prospectively from May 1, 2022.

Supplemental sales information is as follows:

                            Years Ended                                                           
                            October 31,                                                           
  (In millions)             2023                        2022                    2021              
  By type                                                                                         
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Avocado                   $                851.1      $            998.5      $          864.5  
  Blueberry (1)             52.4                        10.7                    —                 
  Mango                     37.3                        17.5                    6.0               
  Other                     13.1                        19.2                    21.2              
  Total net sales           $                953.9      $          1,045.9      $          891.7  
  By customer location                                                                            
  United States             760.5                       854.7                   674.7             
  Rest of world             193.4                       191.2                   217.0             
  Total net sales           $                953.9      $          1,045.9      $          891.7  

(1) Blueberry sales are generated entirely by our Blueberries segment, and are therefore reported prospectively from May 1, 2022.

F-34

MISSION PRODUCE, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Adjusted EBITDA for each of our reportable segments was as follows:

                                                                                 Years Ended                                     
                                                                                 October 31,                                     
  (In millions)                                                                         2023         2022      2021              
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Marketing & Distribution adjusted EBITDA                                                 $       40.1 $      23.5 $      51.4  
  International Farming adjusted EBITDA                                                  3.1         23.3      33.9              
  Blueberries adjusted EBITDA                                                            5.2          0.8      —                 
  Total reportable segment adjusted EBITDA                                                 $       48.4 $      47.6 $      85.3  
  Net (loss) income                                                                   ( 3.1)      ( 34.9)      44.9              
  Interest expense                                                                      11.6          5.5      3.7               
  Provision for income taxes                                                             2.2          3.7      21.1              
  Depreciation and amortization (1)                                                     32.8         24.8      20.4              
  Equity method income                                                                ( 4.0)       ( 5.1)      ( 7.5)            
  Stock-based compensation                                                               4.5          3.6      2.6               
  Executive severance                                                                    1.3            —      —                 
  Legal settlement                                                                         —            —      0.8               
  Asset impairment and disposals, net of insurance recoveries                            1.3          0.4      ( 0.2)            
  Farming costs for nonproductive orchards                                               1.8          1.5      0.8               
  ERP costs (2)                                                                          2.2          4.6      —                 
  Goodwill impairment                                                                      —         49.5      —                 
  Remeasurement gain on business combination with Moruga                                   —       ( 2.0)      —                 
  Transaction costs                                                                      0.3          0.6      —                 
  Amortization of inventory adjustment recognized from business combination              0.7          0.4      —                 
  Other expense (income), net                                                            0.2       ( 4.4)      ( 1.3)            
  Noncontrolling interest (3)                                                         ( 3.4)       ( 0.6)      —                 
  Total adjusted EBITDA                                                                    $       48.4 $      47.6 $      85.3  

(1) Includes depreciation and amortization of purchase accounting assets of $ 2.4 1.4 d$ 0.2

(2) Includes recognition of deferred implementation costs in the years ended October 31, 2023 and 2022. The year ended October 31, 2022 also includes non-recurring post-implementation process reengineering costs.

(3) Represents net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest plus the impact of non-GAAP adjustments, allocable to the noncontrolling owner based on their percentage of ownership interest.

Property, plant and equipment, net attributed to geographic areas was as follows:

                                          October 31,                                   
  (In millions)                           2023                        2022              
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  North America                           $                141.7      $          153.0  
  South America                           370.5                       331.9             
  Europe                                  11.0                        4.8               
  Property, plant and equipment, net      $                523.2      $          489.7  

F-35
