UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM

(Mark One)

  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

For the fiscal year ended

OR

  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

For the transition period from ___ to ___

Commission file number

PHOTRONICS, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

  Connecticut                                                         06-0854886                         
  (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)      (IRS Employer Identification No.)  

15 Secor Road, Brookfield, Connecticut06804

(Address of principal executive offices)(Zip Code)

(203)775-9000

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

  Title of each class      Trading Symbol(s)      Name of each exchange on which registered  
  COMMON                   PLAB                   NASDAQ Global Select Market                
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes☐ No☒

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes☐ No☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes☒No☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). YesNo☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting
company. See definition of “accelerated filer,” “large accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company”, and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

  Large Accelerated Filer      Accelerated Filer          
  Non-Accelerated Filer        Smaller Reporting Company  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                               Emerging Growth company    

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any
new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal
control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ((§15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to
§240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes☐No☒

As of April 30, 2023, which was the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, the aggregate market value
of the shares of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $879,109,827(based upon the closing price of
$14.46 per share as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market on that date).

As of December 14, 2023,62,604,986shares of the registrant’s common stock were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of our Proxy Statement for the
2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

PHOTRONICS, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

OCTOBER 31, 2023

TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                            Page  
  Glossary of Terms and Acronyms                                                                                               3  
  Forward-Looking Statements                                                                                                   4  
  PART I:                                                                                                                         
  ITEM 1. BUSINESS                                                                                                             5  
  ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS                                                                                                       11  
  ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS                                                                                          20  
  ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY                                                                                                      20  
  ITEM 2. PROPERTIES                                                                                                          21  
  ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS                                                                                                   21  
  ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES                                                                                             21  
  PART II:                                                                                                                        
  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES        22  
  ITEM 6. [RESERVED]                                                                                                          22  
  ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS                               23  
  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK                                                         35  
  ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA                                                                         36  
  ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE                                66  
  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES                                                                                            66  
  ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION                                                                                                  68  
  ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS                                                68  
  PART III:                                                                                                                       
  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE                                                             68  
  ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION                                                                                             68  
  ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS                     68  
  ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE                                          68  
  ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES                                                                             69  
  PART IV:                                                                                                                        
  ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES                                                                         69  
  ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY                                                                                                  73  

2

Table of Contents

Glossary of Terms and Acronyms

Definitions of certain terms and acronyms that may appear in this report are provided below.

  AMOLED                            Active-matrix organic light-emitting diode. A technology used in mobile devices.                                                                                                                      
  Application-specific IC           An integrated circuit customized for a particular use, rather than intended for general-purpose use                                                                                                   
  ASC                               Accounting Standards Codification                                                                                                                                                                     
  ASP                               Average Selling Price                                                                                                                                                                                 
  ASU                               Accounting Standards Update                                                                                                                                                                           
  COVID-19                          Covid virus 2019, an infectious disease that was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization in March 2020                                                                                   
  DNP                               Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd.                                                                                                                                                                         
  EUV                               A wafer lithography technology using the industry standard extreme ultraviolet (EUV) wavelength. EUV photomasks function by selectively reflecting or blocking light, in contrast to conventional...  
  Exchange Act                      The Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended)                                                                                                                                                      
  FASB                              Financial Accounting Standards Board                                                                                                                                                                  
  Form 10-K                         Annual Report on Form 10-K                                                                                                                                                                            
  Form 10-Q                         Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q                                                                                                                                                                         
  FPDs                              Flat-panel displays, or “displays”                                                                                                                                                                    
  Generation                        In reference to flat panel displays, refers to the size range of the underlying substrate to which a photomask is applied. Higher generation (or “G”) numbers represent larger substrates             
  High-end (photomasks)             For IC, photomasks that are 28nm or smaller; for FPD, AMOLED, G10.5+, and LTPS photomasks                                                                                                             
  ICs                               Integrated circuits, or semiconductors                                                                                                                                                                
  LIBOR                             London Inter-Bank Offered Rate                                                                                                                                                                        
  LTPS                              Low-Temperature Poly Silicon, a polycrystalline silicon synthesized at relatively low temperatures; polycrystalline silicon in thin-film transistors (TFTs) are used in liquid-crystal display (L...  
  MLA                               Master Lease Agreement                                                                                                                                                                                
  Optical proximity correction      A photolithography enhancement technique applied to compensate for the limitations of light to maintain the edge placement integrity of an original design, imaged onto a silicon wafer, for furt...  
  PDMCX                             Xiamen American Japan Photronics Mask Co., Ltd., a joint venture of Photronics and DNP                                                                                                                
  Phase-shift photomasks            Photomasks that take advantage of the interference generated by phase differences to improve image resolution in photolithography                                                                     
  Pure-play foundry                 A company that does not produce a significant volume of IC products of its own design, but rather operates IC fabrication plants dedicated to producing ICs for other companies                       
  RMB                               Chinese renminbi                                                                                                                                                                                      
  ROU (assets)                      Right-of-use asset                                                                                                                                                                                    
  SEC                               Securities and Exchange Commission                                                                                                                                                                    
  Securities Act                    The Securities Act of 1933 (as amended)                                                                                                                                                               
  U.S. GAAP                         Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America                                                                                                                              
  Wafer                             A wafer, or silicon wafer, is a thin slice of semiconductor material that, in the fabrication of microelectronics, serves as the substrate for microelectronic devices built in and upon the wafer    

All references to “2023”, “2022”, and “2021” are to our fiscal years ended on October 31 of those years, unless otherwise stated.

3

Table of Contents

Forward-Looking Statements

This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, as defined by the SEC. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a “safe harbor” for forward-looking statements made by us, or on our behalf.
Forward-looking statements are statements other than statements of historical fact, including, without limitation, those statements that include such words as “anticipates”, “believes”, “estimates”, “expects”, “intends”, “may”, “plans”,
“predicts”, and similar expressions, and, without limitation, may address our future plans, objectives, goals, strategies, events, or performance, as well as underlying assumptions and other statements that are other than statements of historical
facts. On occasion, in other documents filed with the SEC, press releases, conferences, or by other means, we may discuss, publish, disseminate, or otherwise make available, forward-looking statements, including statements contained within Part
II, Item 7 - “Management’s Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K.

Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed. Our expectations, beliefs and projections are expressed in good
faith and are believed by us to have a reasonable basis, including, without limitation, management’s examination of historical operating trends, information contained in our records, and information we’ve obtained from other parties. However, we
can offer no assurance that our expectations, beliefs, or projections will be realized, accomplished or achieved.

Forward-looking statements within this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of its filing, and we undertake no obligation to update any such statements to reflect changes in events or circumstances that may
subsequently occur. Users of this Form 10-K are cautioned that various factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements found within this Form 10-K and that they should not place undue
reliance on any forward-looking statement. In addition, all forward-looking statements, whether written or oral and whether made by us or on our behalf, are expressly qualified by the risk factors provided in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” of
this Form 10-K.

4

Table of Contents

PART I

  ITEM 1.      BUSINESS  
 ─────────────────────────

General

Photronics, Inc. (and its subsidiaries, collectively referred to herein as “Photronics”, the “Company”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) is the world's leading manufacturer of photomasks, which are high precision photographic
quartz or glass plates containing microscopic images of electronic circuits. Photomasks are a key element in the manufacture of ICs and FPDs and are used as masters to transfer circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers and FPD substrates during
the fabrication of ICs, a variety of FPDs and, to a lesser extent, other types of electrical and optical components. We have eleven manufacturing facilities, which are located in Taiwan (3), China (2), Korea, the United States (3), and Europe (2).

Our principal executive offices are located at 15 Secor Road, Brookfield, Connecticut, 06804, telephone (203) 775-9000. Our website address is http://www.photronics.com. We make available, free of charge through our
website, our Forms 10-K, Definitive Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, Forms 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with or furnished to
the SEC. The information found on, or incorporated into, our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and
other information regarding SEC registrants, including Photronics.

Sales

We manufacture photomasks, which are used as masters to transfer circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers and FPD substrates. The photomasks we manufacture incorporate circuit designs provided to us on a confidential
basis by our customers. Photomasks are typically sold in sets comprised of layers, with each layer having a distinct pattern that is etched onto a different photomask. The resulting series of photomasks is then used to image the circuit patterns
onto each successive layer of a semiconductor wafer or FPD substrate. The typical manufacturing process for a photomask involves the receipt and conversion of circuit design data to manufacturing pattern data. A lithography system then exposes the
circuit pattern onto a photomask blank. The exposed areas are developed and etched to imprint the pattern on the photomask. The photomask is then inspected for defects and conformity to the customer's design data. After the repair of any defects,
the photomask is cleaned, any required pellicles (protective translucent cellulose membranes) are applied and, after final inspection, the photomask is shipped to the customer.

“High-end” photomasks support 28 nanometer and smaller design nodes for ICs and Generation 10.5+, AMOLED, and LTPS display-based process technologies for FPDs. However, 32 nanometer and above geometries for
semiconductors and Generation 8 and below (excluding AMOLED and LTPS) process technologies for displays, which we refer to as “mainstream” photomasks, constitute the majority of designs currently being fabricated in volume. At these geometries and
at various high-end nodes, we can produce full lines of photomasks. Moreover, there is no significant technology employed by our competitors that is not available to us. We expect advanced-generation designs to continue to be developed, and we
believe we are well positioned to service an increasing volume of this business as a result of our ongoing investments in manufacturing processes and technology in the regions where our customers are located.

Generally, Photronics and each of its customers engage in a qualification and correlation process before we become an approved supplier. Thereafter, based on the customer’s specifications, we typically negotiate
pricing parameters for the customer's order. Some prices may remain in effect for an extended period of time. In many instances, we enter into sales arrangements with an understanding that, as long as our performance is competitive, we will receive
a specified percentage of that customer's photomask orders.

The first several layers of photomasks are sometimes required to be delivered to customers within twenty-four hours from the time we receive customer design data. Because of the short period
between order and shipment dates (typically from one day to three weeks) for a significant amount of our revenue, the dollar amount of our current backlog is not a reliable indicator of future revenue. However, the demand for some IC photomasks can
extend over the traditional time period; thus, for some products, our backlog can expand to as long as two to three months.

5

Table of Contents

The ability to manufacture high-quality photomasks within short time periods is dependent upon robust processes, efficient manufacturing methods, high production yield, available manufacturing capacity, and high
equipment reliability. We work to meet these requirements by making significant investments in research and development, manufacturing capacity, preventive and on-going equipment maintenance programs, manufacturing and data processing systems, and
by utilizing statistical process control methods to optimize our manufacturing processes and reduce cycle times.

Quality control is an integral part of the photomask manufacturing process. Photomasks are manufactured in temperature, humidity, and particulate-controlled clean rooms because of the high level of precision, quality
and manufacturing yield required. Each photomask is inspected several times during the manufacturing process to ensure compliance with customer specifications. We continue to make substantial investments in equipment to produce, inspect and repair
photomasks to ensure that customer specifications are met.

We conduct our sales and marketing activities primarily through a staff of full-time sales personnel and customer service representatives who work closely with the Company's management and technical personnel. We
support non-U.S. customers through both our domestic and foreign facilities and consider our presence in non-U.S. markets to be an important factor in attracting new customers, as it provides global solutions to our customers, minimizes delivery
time, and allows us to serve customers that utilize manufacturing foundries outside of the United States, principally in Asia. See Notes 9 and 17 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for the amount of revenue
and long-lived assets attributable to each of our geographic areas of operations.

Research and Development

We primarily conduct research and development activities for IC photomasks at our Boise, Idaho, facility and, to a lesser degree, Photronics DNP Mask Corporation (“PDMC”), our joint-venture subsidiary in Taiwan.
Research and development for FPD photomasks is primarily conducted at Photronics Korea, Ltd., our subsidiary in South Korea. Additionally, we conduct site-specific research and development programs to support local, strategic customer roadmaps. All
of these research and development programs and activities are undertaken to advance our competitiveness in technology and manufacturing efficiency. We also conduct application-oriented research and development, including data and service technology
to support the integration of photomasks into customer processes. Currently, research and development for IC photomasks are primarily focused on photomasks enabling wafer geometries of 14 nanometer node and smaller, including EUV and, for FPDs, on
Generations 8 and 10 substrate size photomasks for new TV technologies, emerging opportunities for micro- and mini-LED displays, and photomask technology for the complex FPD photomasks required in the manufacture of advanced mobile displays, such
as AMOLED. We believe these core competencies will continue to be a critical part of semiconductor and FPD manufacturing, as wafer and FPD substrate optical lithography continues to enable new high-end ICs and displays. We incurred research and
development expenses of $13.7 million, $18.3 million, and $18.5 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. It is our belief that we own, control, or license the proprietary information (including trade secrets and patents) that we need to
continue to meet our customers’ requirements. We also believe that our intellectual property and trade secret know-how will continue to be important to maintaining technical leadership in the field of photomasks.

6

Table of Contents

Markets

The customers for photomasks are primarily semiconductor and FPD manufacturers and to a lesser degree fabless design and equipment companies serving those industries. The size of the photomask market is driven by the
number of designs released to support IC and FPD product introductions and manufacturing expansions. The photomasks required for those designs are manufactured by independent merchant manufacturers like Photronics and by semiconductor and FPD
manufacturers that produce photomasks for their own use (captive manufacturers). In rare instances, captive manufacturers also sell to other semiconductor or FPD manufacturers.

The value of masks produced by merchant suppliers has transitioned from a period when there was a trend toward the divesture or closing of captive photomask operations by semiconductor manufacturers, and an increase in
the share of the market served by independent merchant manufacturers. This trend was driven by the increased complexity and cost of capital equipment used in manufacturing photomasks and the lack of economy of scale for many semiconductor and FPD
manufacturers to effectively utilize the equipment.

That period was followed by a period during which, in order to reach certain roadmap milestones, some captive mask facilities invested at faster rates than independent manufacturers, and the revenue share of market
transitioned to masks being majority captive-supplied. More recently, there has been a tendency of more production being directed to the independent merchant manufacturers, and market share has begun moving toward the independents. Nevertheless,
most captive manufacturers maintain business and technology relationships with independent photomask manufacturers for ongoing support.

We support customers across the full spectrum of IC production and FPD technologies by manufacturing photomasks using electron beam or optical (laser-based) lithography systems. For IC photomasks, the predominant
writing technology used for advanced photomasks with fine-scale resolution requirements is electron beam writing systems, while FPD mask fabrication utilizes optical writing systems. These systems are capable of producing the most advanced
semiconductor and display photomasks for use in an array of products. End markets served with IC photomasks include devices used for microprocessors, memory, telecommunications, the Internet of Things, crypto mining, and other applications. We own
a number of both high-end and mature electron beam and laser-based lithography systems.

We sell our products primarily to leading semiconductor and FPD designers and manufacturers. These include integrated device manufacturers, fabless semiconductor companies, and “pure-play” foundries. During 2023, we
sold our products to approximately 696 customers. Revenue from United Microelectronics Corp. Co., Ltd. accounted for approximately 14%, 15% and 17% of our total revenues in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and revenue from Samsung Electronics
Co., Ltd. accounted for approximately 10%, 11% and 12% of our total revenues in those respective years. In addition, revenue from Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation accounted for approximately 13%, 5% and 3% of our total revenues
in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our five largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 51%, 45% and 43% of our revenue in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. A significant decrease in the amount of revenue from any of these
customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and business prospects.

Competition

The photomask industry is highly competitive, and most of our customers utilize multiple photomask suppliers. Our ability to compete depends primarily upon the consistency of our product quality, timeliness of
delivery, competitive pricing, technical capability, and service, which we believe are the principal factors considered by customers in selecting their photomask suppliers. An inability to meet these requirements could adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We also believe that geographic proximity to customers is an important factor in certain markets where cycle time from order to delivery is critical. While some of our competitors may have
greater financial, sales, marketing, or other resources than Photronics, we believe that we are able to compete effectively because of our dedication to customer service, ongoing investments in state-of-the-art photomask equipment and facilities,
and experienced technical employees.

7

Table of Contents

We estimate that, for the types of photomasks we manufacture (IC and FPD), the size of the total market (captive and merchant) is approximately $7.5 billion. Our competitors include Compugraphics International, Ltd.,
Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd (outside of Taiwan and China), Hoya Corporation, LG Innotek Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Newway Photomask Making Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Qingyi Photomask, Ltd., SK-Electronics Co., Ltd., Taiwan Mask Corporation, and Toppan
Electronics Products Co., Ltd. We also compete with semiconductor and FPD manufacturers' captive photomask manufacturing operations that supply photomasks for internal use and, in some instances, also for external customers and foundries. We expect
to face continued competition which, in the past, has led to pressure to reduce prices. We believe the pressure to reduce prices, together with the significant investment required in capital equipment to manufacture high-end photomasks will
continue in the future.

International Operations

Revenues from our non-U.S. operationswere approximately 86%, 85% and 84% of our total revenues in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We believe that our ability to serve
non-U.S. markets is enhanced by our having, among other things, a local presence in the markets we serve. This requires significant investments in financial, managerial, operational, and other resources.

Operations outside of the United States are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, political and economic conditions in various countries, legal compliance and regulatory
requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, longer accounts receivable collection cycles, potential restrictions on transfers of funds, and potentially adverse tax consequences.
These factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue outside of the United States and may require us to deploy resources where they could otherwise be used to their greatest advantage and, consequently, may adversely
affect our financial condition and results of operations. Notes 9 and 17 of our consolidated financial statements, in Part II, Item 8 of this report, respectively, present our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area.

Resources

Raw materials used by Photronics generally include: high precision quartz plates (including large area plates), which are used as photomask blanks and are primarily obtained from Japanese and Korean suppliers;
pellicles and electronic grade chemicals, which are used in the manufacturing process; and compacts, which are durable plastic containers in which photomasks are shipped. These materials are generally sourced from several suppliers. We believe that
our utilization of a select group of strategic suppliers enables us to access the most technologically advanced materials available. On an ongoing basis, we continue to consider additional supply sources.

We typically enter into annual pricing agreements with our suppliers, some of which include volume-based incentives that have resulted in substantial cost savings; these agreements do not require us to purchase minimum
dollar amounts or quantities of their subject materials.

We rely on a limited number of equipment suppliers to develop and provide the equipment used in the photomask manufacturing process. Although, historically, we have been able to obtain equipment on a timely basis, an
inability to obtain or repair equipment when required could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Intellectual Property Rights

We have developed and hold ownership interests in intellectual property (“IP”) rights, in the forms of patents issued in the U.S., and other trademark and trademark registrations in the U.S. and other countries.
Patents in which we hold ownership interests generally relate to the manufacture of photomasks or the use of photomasks to manufacture other products. While we believe that our IP rights are, and will continue to be, important to our technical
leadership in the field of photomasks, our operations are not dependent on any one individual IP right. In addition to patenting, when practicable, we further protect our IP rights, and our other proprietary processes and trade secrets, by
utilizing non-disclosure agreements with employees, customers, and vendors.

8

Table of Contents

Seasonality

Our business is typically impacted during the first quarter of our fiscal year by the North American, European, and Asian holiday periods, as some customers reduce their development and buying activities during those
periods.

Government Contracts

We are party to a limited number of fixed-price contracts with the U.S. government. Revenues earned from these contracts do not comprise a significant portion of our total revenue.

9

Table of Contents

Government Regulation

We are subject to government regulations within the U.S. and in other countries in which we produce or market our products. The effects of compliance with these regulations are currently not material to our results of
operations, capital expenditures, or competitive position. However, compliance with changes to existing or new regulations may have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations, capital expenditures, or competitive position. We
discuss the potential impact of our not adhering to a number of these regulations in Item 1A. “Risk Factors”, of this Form 10-K. The following is a list of major subjects of the regulations that pertain to our business:

  Regulations, such as those under the Foreign Corrupt practices Act that prohibit providing remuneration to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or securing business in the jurisdic...  

  Regulations that require the minimization and proper disposal of the by-products of our manufacturing processes;  

  Regulations that require us to provide a safe working environment for our employees;  

  Regulations that restrict our ability to transfer assets between operations not within the same legal jurisdiction;  

  Regulations that require us to provide information through the submission of government surveys;  

  Regulations that require us to maintain an effective system of internal accounting controls;  

  Regulations that prohibit us from engaging in business in specified countries, or with specified customers;  

  Regulations that require us to protect the personal information of our customers and employees;  

  Regulations that require us to accurately determine our liabilities to taxing authorities, and to settle such liabilities within their statutorily prescribed time periods;  

  Regulations that require us to withhold and timely remit taxes on our employees’ compensation to government authorities;  

  Regulations that require us to contribute to government-sponsored social insurance plans;  

  Regulations that require us to contribute to employee severance plans;  

  Regulations that prohibit us from disseminating material nonpublic information prior to the public announcement of such information;  

  Regulations pertaining to financial reporting, insider transactions, executive compensation, and other areas overseen by the SEC and governing bodies in other countries in which our operations ...  

Human Capital

As of October 31, 2023, we had approximately 1,885 full-time and part-time employees worldwide. Our business results depend in part on our ability to successfully manage our human capital resources, including
attracting, identifying, and retaining key talent. Factors that may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified employees include employee morale, our reputation, competition from other employers, and availability of qualified individuals.
As of October 31, 2023, none of our employees at any of our worldwide facilities was represented by a union. We consider our employee relations to be good. We believe our commitment to our diverse human capital resources is an important component
of our mission to deliver superior photomasks and customer care. We provide all employees with the opportunity to share their opinions in open dialogues with our human resources department and senior management. We provide all employees a wide
range of career development opportunities, both formal and informal. Our formal offerings include tuition reimbursement, leadership development experiences and vocational training. The safety of our employees is a paramount value for us.

10

Table of Contents

We provide mandatory safety trainings in our production facilities, which are designed to focus on empowering our employees with the knowledge and tools they need to make safe choices and to minimize risks. Supervisors
complete safety management courses as well. The health and wellness of our employees are critical to our success.

We provide our employees with access to a variety of innovative, flexible and convenient health and wellness programs. Such programs are designed to support employees' physical and mental health by providing tools and
resources to help them improve or maintain their health status and encourage engagement in healthy behaviors. Additionally, we provide robust compensation and benefits. In addition to salaries, these programs, which vary by country/region, can
include annual bonuses, stock-based compensation awards, a 401(k) plan with employee matching opportunities, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, family care resources,
employee assistance programs, and tuition assistance.

  ITEM 1A.      RISK FACTORS  
 ──────────────────────────────

Set forth below are discussions of the risk factors we believe can make an investment in our business speculative or risky.

Concentration Related Risk Factors

Our dependency on the microelectronics industry, which as a whole is volatile, could create volatility in our demand and have a negative material impact on our business.

We sell substantially all of our photomasks to semiconductor or FPD designers, manufacturers and foundries, as well as to other high-performance electronics manufacturers. We believe that the demand for photomasks
depends primarily on design activity rather than sales volume from products using photomask technologies. Consequently, an increase in semiconductor or FPD sales does not necessarily result in a corresponding increase in photomask sales. In
addition, the reduced use of application-specific ICs, reductions in design complexities, other changes in the technology or methods of manufacturing or designing semiconductors or FPDs, or a slowdown in the introduction of new semiconductor or FPD
designs could reduce demand for photomasks ‒ even if the demand for semiconductors and FPDs increases. Historically, the microelectronics industry has been volatile, with sharp periodic downturns and slowdowns. These negative trends have been
characterized by, among other things, diminished product demand, excess production capacity, and accelerated erosion of selling prices with a concomitant effect on revenue and profitability.

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for equipment and raw materials and, if those suppliers fail to timely deliver their products to us, we may be unable to fulfill orders from our customers, which could
adversely affect our business and results of operations.

We rely on a limited number of photomask equipment manufacturers to develop, supply, and repair the equipment we use. These equipment manufacturers usually require lead times of twelve months or longer between the
order date and the delivery of certain photomask imaging and inspection equipment. The failure of our suppliers to develop, deliver or service such equipment on a timely basis due to internal issues, supply chain constraints or government imposed
restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the manufacturing equipment necessary to produce advanced photomasks could become prohibitively expensive, which could similarly affect us.

We use high-precision quartz photomask blanks, pellicles, and electronic grade chemicals in our manufacturing processes. There are a limited number of suppliers of these raw materials, and we do not have long-term
contracts with these suppliers. Any delays or quality problems in connection with significant raw materials, particularly photomask blanks, could cause delays in the shipments of photomasks, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business and results of operations. The fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates, with respect to prices of equipment and raw materials used in manufacturing, could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
operations.

11

Table of Contents

We have been dependent on sales to a limited number of large customers; the loss of any of these customers or a significant reduction in orders from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues
and results of operations.

Historically, we have sold a significant proportion of photomasks to a limited number of IC and FPD manufacturers. During 2023, 2022 and 2021, our two largest customers accounted for an aggregate of 27%, 25% and 29%,
respectively, of our revenue. Our five largest customers accounted for an aggregate of 51%, 45% and 43% of our revenue in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The loss of a significant customer, a significant reduction or delay in orders from any
significant customer (including reductions or delays due to customer departures from recent buying patterns), or an unfavorable change in competitive conditions in the semiconductor or FPD industries could have a material adverse effect on our
financial performance and business prospects. The consolidation of semiconductor manufacturers, or an economic downturn in the semiconductor industry, may increase the likelihood of losing a significant customer and could also have an adverse
effect on our financial performance and business prospects.

Financing Related Risk Factors

Our cash flows from operations and current holdings of cash may not be adequate for our current and long-term needs.

Our liquidity, as we operate in a high fixed-cost environment, is highly dependent on our revenue volume and the timing of our capital expenditures, which can vary significantly from period to period. Depending on
conditions in the semiconductor and FPD markets, our cash flows from operations and current holdings of cash may not be adequate to meet our current and long-term needs for capital expenditures, operations, and debt repayments. Historically, in
certain years, we have used external financing to fund these needs. Due to conditions in the credit market, some financing instruments used by us in the past may not be available. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that additional sources of
financing would be available to us on commercially favorable terms, if at all, should our cash requirements exceed our existing cash, and operating cash flows.

Our operations will continue to require substantial capital expenditures, for which we may be unable to provide or obtain funding.

The manufacture of leading-edge photomasks requires us to make substantial investments in additional manufacturing capability. We expect that we will be required to continue to make substantial capital expenditures to
meet customer requirements and to position us for future growth. Our capital expenditure payments for fiscal 2024 are expected to be approximately $140 million, of which approximately $18.7 million was included in Accounts

payableand Accrued liabilitieson our October 31, 2023, consolidated balance sheet. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain the additional capital required to fund our
operations or capital expenditures on reasonable terms, if at all, or that any such inability will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Industry and Competitive Related Risk Factors

Our business depends on managerial and technical personnel, who are in great demand, and our inability to attract and retain qualified employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations.

Our success depends, in part, upon key managerial and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. The loss of certain key personnel (for example, our
chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and chief technology officer) could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot offer assurance that we can retain our key managerial and technical employees,
or that we can attract similar additional employees in the future.

12

Table of Contents

The photomask industry is dependent on the semiconductor and display industries, which are subject to rapid technological change and fluctuations in capacity needs. Consequently, we might fail to adequately time our
capabilities to market needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

The photomask industry has been, and we expect it to continue to be, characterized by technological change and evolving industry requirements, which recent supply chain regionalization efforts have accelerated. In
order to remain competitive, we will be required to continually anticipate, respond to, and scale technologies of increasing complexity in both traditional and emerging markets that we serve. In particular, we believe that, as semiconductor
geometries continue to become smaller and FPDs become larger or otherwise more advanced, we will be required to manufacture photomasks of increasingly more challenging complexity. Moreover, the demand for photomasks in non-leading-edge nodes may
increase beyond our ability to meet our customers’ requirements within adequate response times. Additionally, the demand for photomasks has been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by changes in semiconductor and high-performance
electronics fabrication methods that affect the type or quantity of photomasks utilized, such as changes in semiconductor demand that favor field-programmable gate arrays and other semiconductor designs that replace application-specific ICs, or the
use of certain chip-stacking methodologies that lessen the emphasis on conventional lithography technology. Furthermore, evidence of the viability and the corresponding market acceptance of alternative methods of transferring IC designs onto
semiconductor wafers could reduce or eliminate the need for photomasks in the production of semiconductors. As of the end of 2023, one alternative method, direct-write lithography, has not been proven to be a commercially viable alternative to
photomasks, as it is considered to be too slow for high-volume semiconductor wafer production. However, should direct-write or any other alternative method of transferring IC or FPD designs without the use of photomasks achieve market acceptance,
and if we are unable to anticipate, respond to, or utilize these or other technological changes, due to resource, technological, or other constraints, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

The risk of loss of our intellectual property, trade secrets, or other sensitive business or customer confidential information or disruption of operations due to cyberattacks or data breaches could
negatively impact our financial results.

Cyberattacks or data breaches could compromise confidential, business-critical information, cause disruptions in our operations, expose us to potential litigation, or harm our reputation. We have important assets,
including intellectual property, trade secrets, and other sensitive, business-critical and/or confidential information which may be vulnerable to such incidents. While we have a comprehensive cybersecurity program that is continually reviewed,
maintained, and upgraded, we cannot assure that we are invulnerable to cyberattacks and data breaches which, if significant, could negatively impact our business and financial results.

We may be unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of proprietary technology, and the utilization of unprotected company developed technology by our competitors could adversely affect our business, results of
operations, and financial position.

We believe that the success of our business depends more on proprietary technology, information and processes, and know-how than on our patents or trademarks. Much of our proprietary information and technology related
to manufacturing processes is not patented and may not be patentable. We cannot offer assurance that:

  we will be able to adequately protect our technology;  

  competitors will not independently develop similar technology;  

  international intellectual property laws will adequately protect our intellectual property rights.  

We may become the subject of infringement claims or legal proceedings by third parties with respect to current or future products or processes. Any such claims, with or without merit, or litigation to enforce or
protect our intellectual property rights that require us to defend against claimed infringements of the rights of others, could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources, and product shipment delays or could force us to enter into royalty
or license agreements, rather than dispute the merits of these claims. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position.

13

Table of Contents

We operate in a highly competitive environment, and, should we be unable to meet our customers’ requirements for product quality, timeliness of delivery or technical capabilities, our revenue could be adversely
affected.

The photomask industry is highly competitive, and most of our customers utilize more than one photomask supplier. Our competitors include Compugraphics International, Ltd., Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd (outside of
Taiwan and China), Hoya Corporation, LG Innotek Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Newway Photomask Making Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Qingyi Photomask, Ltd., SK-Electronics Co. Ltd., Taiwan Mask Corporation, and Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd. We also compete with
semiconductor and FPD manufacturers' captive photomask manufacturing operations, some of which market their photomask manufacturing services to outside customers. We expect to face continued competition from these and other suppliers in the future.
Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do. Also, when producing smaller geometry photomasks, some of our competitors may be able to more rapidly develop and produce such masks and
achieve higher manufacturing yields than we can. We believe that consistency of product quality, timeliness of delivery, competitive pricing, technical capability and service are the principal factors considered by customers when selecting their
photomask suppliers. Our inability to meet these competitive requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In the past, competition has led to pressure to reduce prices and the need to invest in
advanced manufacturing technology, which we believe contributed to the decrease in the number of independent photomask suppliers, several years ago. These pressures may worsen in the future, causing further consolidation.

Investment Related Risk Factors

Joint ventures may not operate according to their business plans if our partners fail to fulfill their obligations, which may adversely affect our results of operations and compel us to dedicate additional resources
to these joint ventures.

The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control in certain areas with unaffiliated third parties and it is always possible that the alignment that brought us and our joint venture partner together may change over time, whether due to change in business strategy, change in control, change in market conditions or
applicable laws, or other events. Differing views among joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or failures to agree on major issues. If our joint venture partner does not fulfill its obligations or that alignment changes, the affected joint venture may not be able to operate in accordance with its business plan or the parties may
seek to exit the joint venture under the terms of the joint venture agreement or otherwise. Under such a scenario, among other possible consequences, our results of
operations may be adversely affected, we may be compelled to increase the level of our resources devoted to the joint venture or our company-wide business plan may need to be adjusted. If such differences caused a joint venture to deviate from its business plan, or put, change of control or other exit or terminationprovisions triggered, our results of operations could be materiallyadversely affected.

Our operations in China expose us to substantial risks.

In 2019, we commenced operations at our two manufacturing facilities in China. These investments are subject to substantial risks which may include,
but are not limited to: the inability to protect our intellectual property rights under Chinese law, which may not offer as high a level of protection as U.S. law; unexpectedly long negotiation periods with Chinese suppliers and customers; quality
issues related to materials sourced from local vendors; limited access to electricity; unexpectedly high labor costs due to a tight labor supply; and difficulty in repatriating funds and selling or transferring assets. Our investments in China also
exposed us to a significant additional foreign currency exchange risk, which we had not been subject to in prior years. In addition, as tensions have, from time to time, escalated between the U.S. and China, we believe there is an enhanced risk
that our substantial investments in China may be subject to unforeseen restrictions, which may include expropriation of the investments by the Chinese government or restrictions imposed
on our operations by the U.S. or other countries. These and other risks may result in our not realizing a return on, or losing some, or all, of our investments in China, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition
and financial performance.

We may incur unforeseen charges related to possible future facility closures, restructurings, or forfeitures.

We cannot provide assurance that there will not be facility closures, restructurings, or forfeitures in the near or long term, nor can we assure that we will not incur significant charges should there be any future
facility closures, restructurings, or forfeitures.

14

Table of Contents

We may not be able to consummate future acquisitions or joint ventures or integrate acquisitions into our business, which could result in unanticipated expenses and losses.

As part of our business growth strategy, we have acquired businesses and entered into joint ventures in the past, and we may pursue acquisitions and joint venture opportunities in the future. Our future efforts to grow
the Company may include expanding into new or related markets or industries. Our ability to implement this component of our growth strategy may be limited by both our ability to identify appropriate acquisition or joint venture candidates and our
financial resources, including our available cash and borrowing capacity. The expense incurred in consummating acquisitions or entering into joint ventures, the time it takes to integrate an acquisition, or our failure to integrate businesses
successfully, could result in unanticipated expenses and losses. Furthermore, we may not be able to realize any of the anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures.

The process of integrating acquired operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the
ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. Some of the risks associated with the integration of acquisitions include: potential disruption of our ongoing business; distraction of management; unforeseen claims and liabilities,
including unexpected environmental exposures; unforeseen adjustments, taxes, charges and write-offs; problems enforcing the indemnification obligations of sellers of businesses or joint venture partners for claims and liabilities; unexpected losses
of customers of, or suppliers to, the acquired business; difficulty in conforming the acquired business’ standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; variability in financial performance arising from the implementation of
acquisition accounting; inability to coordinate new product and process development; loss of senior managers and other critical personnel; problems with new labor unions; and challenges arising from the increased scope, geographic diversity, and
complexity of our operations.

Operations Related Risk Factors

Our quarterly operating results fluctuate significantly and may continue to do so in the future.

We have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, and we anticipate that such fluctuations will continue and could intensify in the future. Fluctuations in operating results may result in volatility
in the prices of our common stock and financial instruments that could be linked to its value. Operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the size and timing of orders and shipments, the loss of significant customers,
changes in product mix, the flow of customer design releases, technological change, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, the actions of our competitors, and general economic conditions. We operate in a high fixed-cost environment and, should our
revenues and asset utilization decrease, our operating margins could be negatively impacted.

Our customers generally order photomasks on an as-needed basis; thus, our revenue in any quarter is dependent primarily on orders received during that quarter. Since we operate with little backlog, and the rate of new
orders may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, our capital expenditures and consequential expense levels are, to some extent, based primarily on sales forecasts and technological advancements in photomask manufacturing equipment.
Consequently, if anticipated revenues in any quarter do not occur when expected, our capital investments could result in underutilized capacity and disproportionately high expense levels, causing operating results to be adversely affected. Due to
the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. In addition, in future quarters, our operating results could be below guidance we may provide
or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.

15

Table of Contents

Our substantial non-U.S. operations are subject to additional risks.

Revenuesfrom our non-U.S. operationswere approximately 86%, 85% and 84% of our total revenues in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We
believe that maintaining significant international operations requires us to have, among other things, a local presence in the geographic markets that we supply. This requires significant investments in financial, managerial, operational, and other
resources. Since 1996, we have significantly expanded our operations in international markets by acquiring existing businesses in Europe and Asia, and building manufacturing facilities in Taiwan and China. In order to enable us to optimize our
investments and other resources, we closely monitor the semiconductor and FPD manufacturing markets for indications of geographic movement and, in conjunction with these efforts, continue to assess the locations of our manufacturing facilities.
These assessments could result in the opening of additional facilities or closing of our current facilities.

Operations outside of the United States are subject to inherent risks, including: fluctuations in currency exchange rates; unstable political and economic conditions in various countries; changes in economic alliances;
unexpected changes in regulatory requirements including import and export regulations; compliance with a variety of burdensome foreign laws and regulations; compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws (such as the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act); tariffs and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and longer accounts receivable collection cycles. In addition: foreign countries may enact other restrictions on foreign trade or
investment, including: currency exchange controls; trade sanctions which result in our losing access to customers and suppliers; legislation which renders agreements to be difficult to enforce; impositions on the movement of funds or other assets;
or we may be subject to adverse tax consequences. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our costs or our ability to generate revenues outside of the United States and, consequently, on our business and results of operations.

We could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers, or lose customers as a result of the failure of our products to meet certain quality specifications.

Our products provide important performance attributes for our customers’ products. If a product fails to perform in a manner consistent with quality specifications, or has a shorter useful life than warrantied, a
customer could seek replacement of the product or damages for costs incurred as a result of the product failing to perform, particularly if such products are sold under agreements that contain limited performance and life cycle warranties. Our
customers often require us to guarantee that our products conform to certain product specifications that they provide. Any failure to comply with such specifications could result in claims or legal action. A successful claim, or series of claims,
against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and could result in a loss of one or more customers.

We face risks associated with the use of sophisticated equipment and complex manufacturing processes and technologies. Our inability to effectively utilize such equipment and

technologies and perform such processes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

Our complex manufacturing processes require the use of expensive and technologically sophisticated equipment and materials, and are continually modified in an effort to improve manufacturing yields and product quality.
Minute impurities, defects, or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower manufacturing yields and render products unmarketable. Moreover, the manufacture of leading-edge photomasks is more complex and time consuming than
manufacturing less advanced photomasks, and their fabrication may result in delays in the manufacture of all levels of photomasks. We have, on occasion, experienced manufacturing difficulties and capacity limitations that have delayed our ability
to deliver products within the time frames contracted for by our customers. We cannot provide assurance that we will not experience these or other manufacturing difficulties, or be subject to increased costs, which could result in a loss of
customers or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

We have a high level of fixed costs.

Because of the capital-intensive nature of the photomask manufacturing business, we have a high level of fixed costs and a high degree of operating leverage. Accordingly, should our sales volumes decline as a result of
a decrease in design releases from our customers or for any other reason, we may have excess or underutilized production capacity which could significantly impact our operating margins or result in write-offs from asset impairments.

16

Table of Contents

Regulatory Related Risk Factors

Additional taxes could adversely affect our financial results.

Our tax filings are subject to audits by tax authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are subsequently resolved with the taxing
authorities or through the courts. Currently, we believe there are no outstanding assessments whose resolution would result in a material adverse financial result. However, we cannot offer assurances that unasserted or potential future assessments
would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

Our products and technology could be subject to U.S. export control laws and the export control laws of the foreign jurisdictions where we operate.

We are subject to various laws relating to the export of products we manufacture, and the technology related thereto, and our failure to comply with these laws could subject us to substantial fines, penalties, and even
injunctions, the imposition of which could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.

Certain of our products are or could be subject to the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) if they are manufactured in the U.S., or based on U.S. technology, or contain more than a de minimis amount of
controlled U.S. content. The EAR could prohibit the export of certain products out of the US or could prohibit our foreign sites from manufacturing or delivering photomasks to certain restricted entities. Additionally, the Company has a large,
global business with sales outside the U.S. representing a majority of the Company’s total net sales, and the Company believes that it generally benefits from growth in international trade. However, trade policies and disputes and other
international conflicts can result in tariffs, sanctions and other measures that restrict international trade, and can materially adversely affect the Company’s business, particularly if these measures occur in regions where the Company derives a
significant portion of its revenues.

Based on the complex relationships between the United States and certain foreign countries including, but not limited to China, there is inherent risk that political, diplomatic and national security influences might
lead to trade disputes, impacts and/or disruptions to our operations or our ability to sell our photomasks. The United States and other countries have imposed and may continue to impose trade restrictions and have also levied tariffs and taxes on
certain goods and imposed export restrictions. Increases in tariffs, additional taxes or other trade restrictions and retaliatory measures may increasingly impact customer demand and customer investment in manufacturing equipment, increase our
manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell, export products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations, or financial condition.

We may be unprepared for changes to environmental laws and regulations and may incur liabilities arising from environmental matters.

We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on, among other things, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and the handling, use, storage,
disposal, and cleanup of solid and hazardous wastes. Changes in these laws and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, and inadequate compliance with their requirements could give rise to
significant liabilities.

17

Table of Contents

If we violate environmental, health or safety laws or regulations, in addition to being required to correct such violations, we can be held liable in administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings, and substantial
fines and other sanctions could be imposed that could disrupt or limit our operations. Liabilities associated with the investigation and cleanup of hazardous substances, as well as personal injury, property damages or natural resource damages
arising from the release of, or exposure to, such hazardous substances, may be imposed in many situations without regard to violations of laws or regulations or other fault, and may also be imposed jointly and severally (so that a responsible party
may be held liable for more than its share of the losses involved, or even the entire loss). Such liabilities may also be imposed on many different entities with a relationship to the hazardous substances at issue, including, for example, entities
that formerly owned or operated the property affected by the hazardous substances and entities that arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at the affected property, as well as entities that currently own or operate such property. The
nature of our business, including historical operations at our current and former facilities, exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, use, transportation and sale of materials that can cause
contamination or personal injury if released into the environment. Additional information may arise in the future concerning the nature or extent of our liability with respect to identified sites and additional sites that may be identified, for
which we are alleged to be liable.

General Risk Factors

We could be negatively impacted by
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG), climate change and other sustainability-related matters.

In recent years, there has been an increased focus from stakeholders on environmental, social, and governance matters,
including greenhouse gas emissions and climate-related risks, sustainability, renewable energy, water stewardship, waste management, diversity, equality and inclusion, responsible sourcing and supply chain, human rights, and social
responsibility. Evolving stakeholder expectations and our efforts to manage these issues, report on them, and accomplish our goals present numerous operational, regulatory, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks, any of which could
have a material adverse impact, including on our reputation and stock price, reputational harm, including damage to our relationships with customers, suppliers, investors, governments, or other stakeholders, adverse impacts on our ability to
manufacture and sell products and maintain our market share, the success of our collaborations with third parties, increased risk of litigation, investigations, or regulatory enforcement action, unfavorable environmental, social, and governance
ratings or investor sentiment, diversion of resources and increased costs to control, assess, and report on environmental, social, and governance metrics.

Ineffective internal controls could impact our business and operating results.

Our internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of their inherent limitations in detecting human errors, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud; even
effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we: fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement
required new or improved controls; otherwise fail to prevent financial reporting misstatements; or experience difficulties in implementing internal controls, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted, and we could fail to meet
our financial reporting obligations.

Our business could be adversely impacted by global or regional catastrophic events.

Our business could be materially adversely affected by terrorist acts, widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases (such as COVID-19), government responses emplaced to limit the impact of infectious diseases (such as
shelter-in-place directives), or the outbreak or escalation of wars including, but not limited to, the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian Federation. Such events in the geographic regions in which we do business, including escalations of political
tensions and military conflicts in the U.S., Europe, the Republic of South Korea, the People’s Republic of China, or the Republic of China (Taiwan), and any governmental sanctions enacted in reaction thereto, could result in a global energy crisis,
economic inflation, supply-chain disruptions, or the confiscation or destruction of our facilities; all and any of these outcomes could have material, adverse impacts on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.

Our production facilities could be damaged or disrupted by natural or manmade disasters or labor strikes, either of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.

A major catastrophe, such as an earthquake, flood, fire, or other disaster, labor strike, or work stoppage at any of our manufacturing facilities, or a manufacturing facility of our suppliers or customers, could result
in a prolonged interruption of our business. A disruption resulting from any one of these events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products and the loss of revenue and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our facilities in Taiwan are located in a seismically-active area.

Our sales can be impacted by the health and stability of the general economy, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.

Unfavorable general economic conditions in the U.S. or other countries in which we or our customers conduct business may have the effect of reducing the demand for photomasks. Economic downturns may lead to a decrease
in demand for end products whose manufacturing processes involve the use of photomasks, which may result in a reduction in new product design and development by semiconductor or FPD manufacturers and adversely affect our results of operations and
cash flows.

18

Table of Contents

Technology failures or cyber security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, store, and protect electronic information. For example, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers
depends on information technology. Our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications
failures, computer viruses, hackers, and other security issues. Although we have technology and information security processes and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate our risks to these vulnerabilities, these measures may not be adequate
to ensure that our operations will not be disrupted, should such an event occur.

The General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which went into effect in the European Union (EU) on May 25, 2018, applies to the collection, use, retention, security, processing, and transfer of personally
identifiable information of residents of E.U. countries. The GDPR created a range of new compliance obligations and imposes significant fines and sanctions for violations. It is possible that the GDPR may be interpreted or applied in a manner that
is adverse to, or unforeseen by us, including requirements that are inconsistent with our practices, or that we may otherwise fail to construe its requirements in ways that are satisfactory to the E.U. authorities. Upon leaving the E.U. on January
31, 2021, the U.K. enacted a new domestic data privacy law called the “U.K. - General Data Protection Regulation” (“UK-GDPR”). Although somewhat less restrictive than the GDPR, the UK-GDPR is similar to the GDPR with respect to both an entity’s
obligation to protect personal information and the imposition of significant fines for violations.

Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with the GDPR or the UK-GDPR, or with any applicable regulatory requirements or orders, including, but not limited to privacy, data protection, information security,
or consumer protection related privacy laws and regulations, in one or more jurisdictions within the E.U., the U.K. or elsewhere, could: result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or individuals; subject us to significant
fines, penalties, and/or judgments; require us to change our business practices; limit access to our products and services in certain countries, or otherwise adversely affect our business, as we would be at risk to lose both customers and revenue,
and incur substantial costs.

We may, in the future, incur net losses.

Although the Company has been profitable since fiscal 2010, it has, in the past, incurred net losses. We cannot provide assurance that the Company will not incur net losses in the future.

Market Related Risk Factors

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and are reported in U.S. dollars. Our operations have transactions and balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar;
primarily the South Korean won, New Taiwan dollar, Japanese yen, Chinese renminbi, euro, Singapore dollar, and the British pound sterling. In 2023, we recorded a net gain from changes in foreign currency exchange rates of $2.5 million in our
consolidated statement of income, while our net assets increased by $5.6 million as a result of the translation of foreign currency financial statements to U.S. dollars. Significant foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our results of
operations, financial condition, or cash flows.

Our hedging activity could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows.

We may enter into derivatives to manage our exposures to interest rate and currency movements. If we do not accurately forecast our results of operations, execute contracts that do not effectively mitigate our economic
exposures to interest rates and currency rates, elect to not apply hedge accounting (when doing so would have mitigated our losses), or fail to comply with the complex accounting requirements for hedging transactions, our results of operations and
cash flows could be volatile, as well as negatively impacted.

19

Table of Contents

The market price of our common stock is subject to volatility and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control.

Factors that may influence the price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, the following:

  loss of any of our key customers or suppliers;  

  additions or departures of key personnel;  

  third party sales of common stock;  

  short interest in our common stock;  

  our ability to execute our business plan, including but not limited to, our expansion into China;  

  announcements and consummations of business acquisitions;  

  operating results that fall below or exceed expectations;  

  announcements of forecasted earnings or material transactions;  

  issuances or repurchases of our common stock;  

  intellectual property disputes;  

  reputational damage suffered with or without merit;  

  industry developments;  

  news about or disclosures made by our competitors or customers;  

  business combinations, divestitures, or bankruptcies by customers, suppliers, or competitors;  

  economic and other external factors including (but not limited to) inflation, recessions, natural disasters, military actions, political instability, or social unrest; and  

  period to period fluctuations in our financial results.  

In addition, securities markets have from time-to-time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also
materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Such fluctuations may be the result of imbalances between buy and sell offers, the actions of quantitative or algorithmic stock traders and short-sellers, or low trading volume
which can magnify the effects of a small number of transactions on the price of a stock.

We operate in a global, competitive environment which gives rise to operating and market risk exposure.

We sell our products in a competitive, global environment, and compete worldwide for sales on the basis of product quality, price, technology, and customer service. Sales of our products are also
subject to federal, state, local, and foreign taxes, laws and regulations, trade agreements, import and export controls, duties, and tariffs. The imposition of additional regulations or controls including export controls, duties, tariffs, or
changes to bilateral and regional trade agreements, could negatively impact our results of operations.

  ITEM 1B.      UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────

None.

  ITEM 1C.      CYBERSECURITY  
 ───────────────────────────────

Not applicable

20

Table of Contents

  ITEM 2.      PROPERTIES  
 ───────────────────────────

The following table presents certain information about the Company's photomask manufacturing facilities:

  Location                     Type of Interest  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Allen, Texas                 Owned             
  Boise, Idaho                 Owned             
  Brookfield, Connecticut      Owned             
  Bridgend, Wales              Leased            
  Cheonan, Korea               Owned             
  Hefei, China                 Owned(1)          
  Dresden, Germany             Leased            
  Hsinchu, Taiwan              Owned(1)          
  Hsinchu, Taiwan              Leased            
  Taichung, Taiwan             Owned(1)          
  Xiamen, China                Owned(1)          

(1) We own our manufacturing facilities in Hefei, Taichung, Xiamen, and one of our manufacturing facilities in Hsinchu. However, we lease the related land at these sites. We believe our facilities, with
planned expansions, are adequate to support our current and near-term requirements.

  ITEM 3.      LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  
 ──────────────────────────────────

Please refer to Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report for information on legal proceedings involving the Company.

  ITEM 4.      MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES  
 ────────────────────────────────────────

Not applicable.

21

Table of Contents

PART II

  ITEM 5.      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ("NASDAQ") under the symbol PLAB. On December 14, 2023, the closing sale price of our common stock, per the NASDAQ Global Select Market, was $29.09. Based
on available information, we have 229 registered shareholders.

To date, we have not paid any cash dividends on Photronics shares, and, for the foreseeable future, we anticipate that earnings will continue to be retained for use in our business.

In September 2020, the Company’s BoardofDirectorsauthorized the
repurchase of up to $100 million of its common stock, pursuant to a repurchase plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Act. The most recent 10b5-1 plan expired on September 15, 2022,
and has not been renewed. Share repurchases under this authorization commenced on September 16, 2020. The repurchase authorization by the Board of Directors has no expiration
date, does not obligate us to acquire any common stock, and is subject to market conditions. In 2023, we did not repurchase any further shares as part of this program. In 2022, we repurchased 0.2 million shares at a cost of $2.5 million
(an average of $13.43 per share) and, since the program’s inception, we have repurchased 5.8 million shares at a cost of $68.3 million (an average of $11.70 per share). There is $31.7
million remaining under the Board of Director authorization. All shares repurchased under the program have been retired.

Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans

The information regarding our equity compensation required to be disclosed by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference from the Photronics, Inc. 2024 Definitive Proxy Statement in Item 12 of Part III
of this report. The 2024 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed within 120 days after our fiscal year ended October 31, 2023.

Stock Price Performance

The information regarding our stock price performance required to be disclosed by Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference from the
Photronics, Inc. 2024 Definitive Proxy Statement in Item 12 of Part III of this report. The 2024 Definitive Proxy Statement will be filed within 120 days after our fiscal year ended October 31, 2023.

  ITEM 6.      [RESERVED]  
 ───────────────────────────

22

Table of Contents

  ITEM 7.      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Overview

We sell substantially all of our photomasks to semiconductor designers and manufacturers, and manufacturers of FPDs. Photomask technology is also being applied to the fabrication of other higher-performance electronic
products such as virtual reality/augmented reality advanced IC packages, photonics, micro-electronic mechanical systems, and certain nanotechnology applications. Our selling cycle is tightly interwoven with the development and release of new
semiconductor and display designs and applications, particularly as they relate to the semiconductor industry's migration to more advanced product innovation, design methodologies, and fabrication processes. The demand for photomasks primarily
depends on design activity rather than sales volumes from products manufactured using semiconductor manufacturing technologies. Consequently, an increase in semiconductor or display sales does not necessarily result in a corresponding increase in
photomask sales. However, the reduced use of application-specific ICs, reductions in design complexities, other changes in the technology or methods of manufacturing or designing semiconductors, or a slowdown in the introduction of new
semiconductor or display designs could reduce demand for photomasks ‒ even if the demand for semiconductors and FPDs increases. Advances in semiconductor, display, and photomask design and production methods that shift the burden of achieving
device performance away from lithography could also reduce the demand for photomasks. Historically, the microelectronics industry has been volatile, experiencing periodic downturns and slowdowns in design activity. These negative trends have been
characterized by, among other things, diminished product demand, excess production capacity, and accelerated erosion of selling prices with a concomitant effect on revenue and profitability.

We are typically required to fulfill customer orders within a short period of time, sometimes within twenty-four hours. This results in a minimal level of backlog orders, typically one to two weeks of backlog for IC
photomasks and two to three weeks of backlog for FPD photomasks. However, the demand for some IC photomasks can extend longer than the traditional time period; thus, for some products, our backlog can expand to as long as two to three months.

The global semiconductor and FPD industries are driven by end markets which have been closely tied to consumer-driven applications of high-performance devices, including, but not limited to, mobile display devices,
mobile communications, and computing solutions. While we cannot predict the timing of the industry's transition to volume production of next-generation technology nodes, or the timing of up and down-cycles with precise accuracy, we believe that
such transitions and cycles will continue into the future, beneficially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, and operating results as they occur. We believe our ability to remain successful in these environments is dependent
upon the achievement of our goals of being a service and technology leader and efficient solutions supplier, which we believe should enable us to continually reinvest in our global infrastructure.

We are focused on improving our competitiveness by advancing our technology and reducing costs and, in connection therewith, have invested and plan to continue to invest in manufacturing equipment to serve both the
high-end photomask and trailing-edge markets. As we face challenges that require us to make significant improvements in our competitiveness, we continue to evaluate further cost reduction initiatives.

State-of-the-art production for semiconductor masks is considered to be 28 nanometer and smaller for ICs and Generation 10.5+ and AMOLED and LTPS display-based process technologies for FPDs. However, 32 nanometer and
above geometries for semiconductors and Generation 8 and below (excluding AMOLED and LTPS) process technologies for displays constitute the majority of designs currently being fabricated in volume. At these geometries and various high-end nodes, we
can produce full lines of photomasks, and there is no significant technology employed by our competitors that is not available to us. We expect advanced-generation designs to continue to move to production throughout fiscal 2024, and we believe we
are well positioned to service an increasing volume of this business as a result of our investments in manufacturing processes and technology in the regions where our customers are located.

23

Table of Contents

The photomask industry has been, and is expected to continue to be characterized by technological change and evolving industry standards. In order to remain competitive, we will be required to continually anticipate,
respond to, and utilize changing technologies. In particular, we believe that, as semiconductor geometries continue to become smaller, and display designs become larger or otherwise more advanced, we will be required to manufacture even more
complex optically-enhanced reticles, including optical proximity correction, phase-shift and EUV photomasks. Additionally, demand for photomasks has been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by changes in high-performance electronics
fabrication methods that affect the type or quantity of photomasks used, such as changes in semiconductor demand that favor field-programmable gate arrays and other semiconductor designs that replace application-specific ICs, or the use of certain
chip-stacking methodologies that lessen the emphasis on conventional lithography technology. Furthermore, increased market acceptance of alternative methods of transferring circuit designs onto semiconductor wafers could reduce or eliminate the
need for photomasks in the production of semiconductors. As of the end of 2023, one alternative method, direct-write lithography, has not been proven to be a commercially viable alternative to photomasks, as it is considered to be too slow for
high-volume semiconductor wafer production, and we have not experienced a significant loss of revenue as a result of this or other alternative semiconductor design methodologies. However, should direct-write lithography or any other alternative
method of transferring IC designs to semiconductor wafers without the use of photomasks achieve market acceptance, and we do not anticipate, respond to, or utilize these or other changing technologies due to resource, technological, or other
constraints, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

Our revenues have benefitted, and our costs, including depreciation, have been affected by the increased demand for high-end-technology photomasks that require more advanced manufacturing capabilities, but generally
command higher ASPs. Our capital expenditure payments were $131.3 million, $112.3 million and $109.1 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Nonetheless, we intend to continue to make the required investments to support the technological
requirements of our customers that we believe will continue to enable our growth. In support of this effort, we expect capital expenditure payments to be approximately $140 million in fiscal year 2024.

The manufacture of photomasks for use in fabricating ICs, FPDs, and other related products built using comparable photomask-based process technologies has been, and continues to be, capital intensive. Our employees and
our integrated global manufacturing network represent a significant portion of our fixed operating cost base. Should our revenue decrease as a result of a decrease in design releases from our customers, we may have excess or underutilized
production capacity, which could significantly impact our operating margins, or result in write-offs from asset impairments.

24

Table of Contents

Results of Operations

The following tables present selected operating information expressed as a percentage of revenue. The columns may not foot due to rounding.

                                                                Three Months Ended                                   
                                                                October 31,                                          
                                                                2023                                                 
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Revenue                                                                               100.0      100.0      100.0  
  Cost of goods sold                                                                     62.7       61.3       61.8  
  Gross profit                                                                           37.3       38.7       38.2  
  Selling, general and administrative expenses                                            7.4        8.0        7.5  
  Research and development expenses                                                       1.5        1.6        1.9  
  Operating income                                                                       28.5       29.1       28.8  
  Non-operating income (expense), net                                                     8.2       -0.4        5.1  
  Income before income tax provision                                                     36.7       28.7       33.9  
  Income tax provision                                                                    8.9        7.2        7.6  
  Net income                                                                             27.8       21.5       26.3  
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests                                     8.2        9.5        8.7  
  Net income attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders                               19.6       12.0       17.6  

                                                                Year Ended                                    
                                                                October 31,                                   
                                                                2023                                          
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Revenue                                                                        100.0      100.0      100.0  
  Cost of goods sold                                                              62.3       64.3       74.8  
  Gross profit                                                                    37.7       35.7       25.2  
  Selling, general and administrative expenses                                     7.8        7.8        8.7  
  Research and development expenses                                                1.5        2.2        2.8  
  Other operating income, net                                                      0.0        0.0        0.5  
  Operating income                                                                28.4       25.7       14.2  
  Non-operating income (expense), net                                              1.9        3.3        1.1  
  Income before income tax provision                                              30.3       29.0       15.4  
  Income tax provision                                                             7.9        7.3        3.5  
  Net income                                                                      22.4       21.7       11.9  
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests                              8.3        7.3        3.5  
  Net income attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders                        14.1       14.4        8.4  

25

Table of Contents

Note:All the following tabular comparisons, unless otherwise indicated, are for the three months ended October 31, 2023 (Q4 FY23), July 30, 2023 (Q3 FY23) and October 31, 2022
(Q4 FY22), and for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2023 (YTD FY23) and October 31, 2022 (YTD FY22). Please refer to Part II, Item 7 of our 2022 Form 10-K for comparative discussion of our fiscal years ended October 31, 2022, and October 31,
2021. The tables in this item may not foot due to rounding.

Revenue

Our quarterly revenues can be affected by the seasonal purchasing practices of our customers. As a result, demand for our products is typically reduced during the first quarter of our fiscal year by the North American,
European, and Asian holiday periods, as some of our customers reduce their development and, consequently, their buying activities during those periods.

The following tables present changes in revenue disaggregated by product type and geographic origin, in Q4 FY23 and YTD FY23 from revenue in prior reporting periods.

Quarterly Changes in Revenue by Product Type

                     Q4 FY23 compared with Q3 FY23                                       Q4 FY23 compared with Q4 FY22                      
                     Revenue in                                                          Increase                                           
                     Q4 FY23                                                             (Decrease)                                         
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  IC                                                                                                                                        
  High-end *         $                                   57.7       12.4       27.4      $                                  13.4      30.2  
  Mainstream                                            106.8      (11.0       (9.3                                         (5.1      (4.5  
  Total IC           $                                  164.5        1.4        0.8      $                                   8.3       5.3  
  FPD                                                                                                                                       
  High-end *         $                                   53.3        3.3        6.6      $                                   9.9      22.8  
  Mainstream                                              9.7       (1.4      (12.5                                         (0.9      (8.9  
  Total FPD          $                                   63.0        1.9        3.1      $                                   9.0      16.5  
  Total Revenue      $                                  227.5        3.3        1.5      $                                  17.2       8.2  

  High-end photomasks typically have higher ASPs than mainstream products.  

Quarterly Changes in Revenue by Geographic Origin**

                     Q4 FY23 compared with Q3 FY23                                     Q4 FY23 compared with Q4 FY22                      
                     Revenue in                                                        Increase                                           
                     Q4 FY23                                                           (Decrease)                                         
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Taiwan             $                                   79.3      (2.3      (2.8      $                                   3.0       3.9  
  China                                                  59.2      (2.9      (4.6                                          6.8      12.9  
  Korea                                                  42.2       1.4       3.3                                          4.2      11.2  
  United States                                          36.8       7.1      23.9                                          2.8       8.2  
  Europe                                                  9.3      (0.2      (2.2                                          0.3       3.0  
  Other                                                   0.7       0.2      34.4                                          0.1      24.7  
  Total revenue      $                                  227.5       3.3       1.5      $                                  17.2       8.2  

  This table disaggregates revenue by the location in which it was earned.  

Revenue in Q4 FY23 of $227.5 million represented an increase of 1.5% compared with Q3 FY23, and an increase of 8.2% from Q4 FY22.

26

Table of Contents

Overall IC revenue increased 0.8 % from Q3 FY23, and increased 5.3% from Q4 FY22 due to stronger high-end foundry and logic demand in Asia. IC mainstream decreased in Q4 FY23 by 9.3% from Q3 FY23, and 4.5% from Q4 FY22
primarily the result of reduced mainstream demand in Asia.

FPD revenue increased 3.1% and 16.5% in Q4 FY23, compared, respectively, with Q3 FY23 and Q4 FY22. The increases were caused by continued strong AMOLED demand in mobile display during Q4 FY23. Revenue from mainstream
products decreased 12.5% from Q3 FY23 as more production capacity was dedicated to meet strong high-end demand.

Year-over-Year Changes in Revenue by Product Type

                     YTD FY23 compared with YTD FY22                                                               
                     Revenue in                                      Increase                  Percent             
                     YTD FY23                                        (Decrease)                Change              
  IC                                                                                                               
  High-end *         $                                    195.0      $               (0.4                    (0.2  
  Mainstream                                              456.3                      58.6                    14.7  
  Total IC                                                651.3      $               58.3                     9.8  
  FPD                                                                                                              
  High-end *                                              200.8      $               13.9                     7.4  
  Mainstream                                               40.0                      (4.6                   (10.3  
  Total FPD                                               240.8      $                9.3                     4.0  
  Total Revenue                                           892.1      $               67.5                     8.2  

  High-end photomasks typically have higher ASPs than mainstream photomasks.  

Year-over-Year Changes in Revenue by Geographic Origin**

                     YTD FY23 compared with YTD FY22                                                    
                     Revenue in                                      Increase                  Percent  
                     YTD FY23                                        (Decrease)                 Change  
  Taiwan             $                                    316.9      $               25.5          8.8  
  China                                                   245.4                      32.8         15.4  
  Korea                                                   162.2                       6.1          3.9  
  United States                                           128.9                       2.7          2.1  
  Europe                                                   36.6                       0.2          0.5  
  Other                                                     2.1                       0.3         13.5  
                     $                                    892.1      $               67.5          8.2  

  This table disaggregates revenue by the location in which it was earned.  

Revenue in YTD FY23 of $892.1 million surpassed our prior record revenue set in YTD FY22 by $67.5 million, or 8.2%. IC revenue increased by 9.8%, due to strong demand for mainstream products
earlier in the year. FPD revenue increased by 4.0%, driven by a 7.4% increase in revenue from high-end products due to increased AMOLED demand in mobile displays, which offset decreased mainstream resulting from shifting capacity to meet strong
high-end demand. We believe that strong demand for AMOLED photomasks will continue, as expected technology advances drives increasing overall demand for higher-value masks.

27

Table of Contents

Gross Margin

                                                                  Percent                Percent  
                    Q4 FY23                Q3 FY23                Change                 Change   
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Gross profit      $            84.9      $            86.8                   80.3               
  Gross margin                   37.3                   38.7                   38.2               

Gross margin was 37.3% for Q4 FY23, representing a slight decrease from the Q3 FY23 gross margin of 38.7%, as increase in revenue of 1.5% was offset by increased material costs of 4.2%, or 69 basis points as a
percentage of revenue. Labor costs increased 4.5%, or 30 basis points as a percentage of revenue, due to increased costs in some locations. Equipment and other overhead costs increased 3.0%, or 41 basis points as a percentage of revenue, with
increased equipment maintenance costs, partially offset by lower outsourced manufacturing costs, most significantly contributing to the net cost increase.

Gross margin decreased by 0.9 percentage points in Q4 FY23, from Q4 FY22, primarily as a result of the increase in material costs as a percentage of revenue from the prior year quarter. Equipment and other overhead
costs increased 9.7%, or 37 basis points, as a percentage of revenue. Increased depreciation expense, utilities expenses, and outsourced manufacturing costs, which were partially offset by decreased equipment maintenance costs, were the primary
contributors to the overall increase.

                                                                      Percent            
                    YTD FY23                 YTD FY22                 Change             
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Gross profit      $             336.2      $             294.2                   14.3  
  Gross margin                     37.7                     35.7                         

Gross margin increased by 2.0percentage points in YTD FY23, from YTD FY22, primarily as a result of the increase in revenue from the prior year period, offset somewhat by the
following net cost increases: Material costs increased 2.8% from the prior year period, but decreased 129 basis points as a percentage of revenue. Labor costs increased 10.3% from the prior year, and increased 30 basis points as a percentage of
revenue, primarily due to increased labor costs in Asia. Equipment and other overhead costs increased by 4.5% but decreased 95 basis points as a percentage of revenue, with increased utilities, equipment
service contract costs, and less transfer of research and development cost from cost of goods sold to research and development expense, as well as increases in computer software costs, offset by decreased importation costs most significantly
contributing to the overall cost increase.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $16.7 million in Q4 FY23, compared with $18.0 million in Q3 FY23, and $15.7 million in Q4 FY22. The decrease from Q3 FY23 was primarily the result of decreased
compensation and related expenses of $1.5 million offset partially by increased insurance expenses and outside services of $0.1 million and $0.1 million, respectively. The increase from the prior year quarter was primarily the result of increased
compensation and related expenses of $1.0 million and increased insurance expenses of $0.2 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $5.5 million to $69.5 million in YTD FY23, from $64.0 million in YTD FY22, primarily due to
an increase in compensation and related expenses, professional fees, travel and entertainment and insurance expenses in the respective amounts of $4.1 million, $1.2 million, $0.4 million and $0.3million.

Research and Development Expenses

Research and development expenses, which primarily consist of development and qualification efforts related to process technologies for high-end IC and FPD applications, decreased $0.1 million to
$3.4 million in Q4 FY23, from Q3 FY23; the decrease was primarily caused by a decline in development activities in Asia. Research and development expenses in Q4 FY23 decreased by $0.7 million from Q4 FY22 as a result of decreased development
activities in the U.S. and Asia. On a year-to-date basis, research and development expenses decreased $4.7 million, to $13.7 million, primarily due to decreased development activities in the U.S.

28

Table of Contents

Non-Operating Income (Expense)

                                                 Q4 FY23                Q3 FY23                Q4 FY22            
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Foreign currency transactions impact, net      $            13.2      $            (4.5      $            10.4  
  Interest expense, net                                       (0.1                   (0.1                   (0.4  
  Interest income and other income, net                        5.6                    3.7                    0.8  
  Non-operating income (expense), net            $            18.7      $            (0.9      $            10.8  

Non-operating income (expense) increased in Q4 FY23 from Q3 FY23 by $19.6million, primarily due to foreign currency impacts, driven by favorable movements of the South Korean
won, the New Taiwan dollar, RMB dollar against the U.S. dollar offsetting unfavorable movements of the Singapore dollar against the U.S. dollar. Non-operating income (expense) increased from Q4 FY22, by $7.9million,

primarily due to higher interest and investment income earned on our cash balances, in addition to foreign currency transactions impact.

                                                 YTD FY23                YTD FY22            
  Foreign currency transactions impact, net      $              2.5      $             27.3  
  Interest expense, net                                        (0.4                    (1.9  
  Interest income and other income, net                        14.8                     1.7  
  Non-operating income (expense), net            $             16.9      $             27.2  

Non-operating income (expense) decreased $10.3 million in full year FY23, compared with full year FY22, due to foreign currency transactions, driven by unfavorable movements of the South Korean won, the New Taiwan
dollar, and the Singapore dollar offsetting favorable movements of the RMB against the U.S. dollar, partially offset by increased interest income in the current year resulting from higher average cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments
balances in FY23, compared with FY22 and lower interest expense, net of subsidies, due to receiving a lower amount of interest subsidies on our China-based debt in FY23, the effect of which was partially mitigated by lower average interest-bearing
debt balance in FY23 than in the prior year. The columns presented above may not foot due to rounding.

Income Tax Provision

On December 15, 2022, the European Union (EU) Member States formally adopted the EU’s Pillar Two Directive, which generally provides for a minimum
effective tax rate of 15%, as established by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Pillar Two Framework. The EU effective dates are January 1, 2024, and January 1, 2025, for different aspects of the directive. A
significant number of other countries are expected to also implement similar legislation with varying effective dates in the future. The Company is continuing to evaluate the potential impact on future periods of the Pillar Two Framework, pending
legislative adoption by additional individual countries.

                                 Q4 FY23                Q3 FY23                Q4 FY22            
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Income tax provision           $            20.3      $            16.1      $            16.1  
  Effective income tax rate                   24.3                   25.0                   22.5  

The effective income tax rates are sensitive to the jurisdictional mix of our earnings, due, in part, to the non-recognition of tax benefits on losses in jurisdictions with valuation allowances where the tax benefits
of losses are not available.

The effective income tax rate decreased slightly in Q4 FY23, compared with Q3 FY23, primarily due to changes in the period-to-period mix of jurisdictional earnings. The effective income tax rate increase in Q4 FY23, as
compared with Q4 FY22, is primarily due to changes in the jurisdictional mix of earnings as well as an increase in foreign tax as compared to the prior year.

                                 FY23                FY22            
  Income tax provision           $         70.3      $         59.8  
  Effective income tax rate                26.0                25.0  

29

Table of Contents

The increase in the effective income tax rate on a full-year basis in FY23, compared with FY22, is primarily due to an increase of unremitted earnings tax in a non-US jurisdiction, as well as changes in the
jurisdictional mix of earnings. We consider all available evidence when evaluating the potential future realization of deferred tax assets, and when, based on the weight of all available evidence, we determine that it is more likely than not that
some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we reduce our deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance. We also regularly assess the potential outcomes of ongoing and future tax examinations and, accordingly, have recorded
accruals for such contingencies. Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits as of October 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022, are $8.9 million and $5.6 million respectively, recorded in Other liabilitiesin the consolidated balance sheets that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rates.

Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $18.5million in Q4 FY23, compared with $21.3 million in Q3 FY23; the decrease was the result of a net decrease in the net
incomes of our joint venture operations. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased by $0.3million in Q4 FY23 from Q4 FY22, and by $13.7million in
YTD FY23 from YTD FY22, as a result of increased net income at both our Taiwan-based and China-based IC facilities.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash and cash equivalents was $499.3million and $319.7 million as of October 31, 2023, and October 31, 2022, respectively. As of the most recent balance sheet date, total cash
and cash equivalents included $473.2million held by foreign subsidiaries. Net Cash, a non-GAAP financial measure as defined and discussed in the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section below, was $474.7 million
and $277.3million as of October 31, 2023, and October 31, 2022, respectively. Our primary sources of liquidity are our cash on hand and cash we generate from operations.

We continually evaluate alternatives for efficiently funding our capital expenditures and ongoing operations. These reviews may result in our engagement in a variety of investing and financing transactions, in the
transfer of cash among subsidiaries, and/or the repatriation of cash to the U.S. The transfer of funds among subsidiaries could be subject to foreign withholding taxes; in certain jurisdictions, repatriation of these funds to the U.S. may subject
them to U.S. state income taxes and/or local country withholding taxes. We believe that our liquidity, including available financing, is sufficient to meet our requirements through the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future.
Through the utilization of our existing liquidity, cash we generate from operations and short-term investments, we plan to continue to invest in our business, with our investments targeted to align with our customers’ technology road maps. In
addition, we stand ready to invest in mergers, acquisitions, or strategic partnerships, should a suitable opportunity arise.

We estimate capital expenditures for our fiscal year 2024 will be approximately $140million; these investments will be targeted towards high-end and mainstream “point” tools
that will increase our operating capacity and efficiency, and enable us to support our customers’ near-term demands. As of October 31, 2023, we had outstanding capital commitments of approximately $106.8million

and recognized liabilities related to capital equipment purchases of approximately $18.7million. Although payment timing could vary, primarily as a result of the timing of tool delivery, installation and
testing, we currently estimate that we will fund $88.6million of our total $125.5million committed and recognized obligations for capital expenditures over the next
twelve months. Please refer to Notes 10 and 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our lease liabilities and unrecognized commitments, respectively.

In September 2020, the Company’s board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100 million of its common stock, pursuant to a repurchase plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Act. This authorization does
not obligate the Company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of common stock. As of October 31, 2023, there was approximately $31.7 million remaining under that authorization. Depending on market conditions, we may utilize some or
the entire remaining approved amount to reacquire additional shares.

30

Table of Contents

As discussed in Note 6 of our consolidated financial statements, DNP, the noncontrolling interest in our China-based joint venture has, under certain circumstances, the right to put its interest in the joint venture to
Photronics, or to purchase our interest in the joint venture. Under all such circumstances, the sale of DNP’s interest would be at its ownership percentage of the joint venture’s net book value, with closing to take place within three business days
of obtaining required approvals and clearance. As of the date of issuance of this report, DNP had not indicated its intention to exercise this right. As of October 31, 2023, Photronics and DNP each had net investments in this joint venture of
approximately $117.1million.

Cash Flows

                                                 Year Ended                                                                                        
                                                 October 31, 2023                  October 31, 2022                  October 31, 2021              
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net cash provided by operating activities      $                      302.2      $                      275.2      $                      150.8  
  Net cash used in investing activities          $                     (101.5      $                     (147.8      $                     (103.5  
  Net cash used in financing activities          $                      (18.5      $                      (38.7      $                      (53.9  

Operating Activities: Net cash provided by operating activities reflects net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization,
share-based compensation, and the effects of changes in operating assets and liabilities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $27.0million in FY23, compared with FY22, primarily due to
increased net income and net cash-favorable changes in working capital, predominantly in Asia.

Free Cash Flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure as discussed in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section below, increased by $8.0million in FY23, compared with FY22, and
$121.2 million in FY22, compared with FY21, primarily due to increases in net cash provided by operating activities.

Investing Activities: In FY23, net cash flows used in investing activities primarily consisted of purchases of $131.3million
of property, plant and equipment. Net cash flows used in investing activities decreased by $46.2million in FY23, compared with FY22, primarily as a result of $47.5 million in proceeds from the maturity of
available-for-sale debt securities.

Financing Activities: In FY23, net cash flows used in financing activities primarily consisted of debt repayments of $18.5 million. Net cash used in financing
activities decreased by $20.2 million in FY23, compared with FY22, primarily due to decreased repayments of debt of $47.0 million, offset by decreased contributions from noncontrolling interests of $25.0 million that occurred in FY22 but did not
repeat in FY23.

Our cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash balances were negatively impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in FY23 by $2.7million.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Non-GAAP Non-operating (loss) income, Non-GAAP Income tax provision, Non-GAAP Noncontrolling interests, Non-GAAP Net Income attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders and non-GAAP earnings per share, Free Cash Flow,
and Net Cash are "non-GAAP financial measures" as such term is defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission and may differ from similarly named non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The financial tables below reconcile
Photronics, Inc. financial results under GAAP to non-GAAP financial information. We believe these non-GAAP financial measures that exclude certain items are useful for analysts and investors to evaluate our future on-going performance because they
enable a more meaningful comparison of our projected performance with our historical results. These non-GAAP metrics are not intended to represent funds available for our discretionary use and are not intended to represent, or be used as a
substitute for, net income attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders, diluted earnings per share, cash and cash equivalents, or cash flows from operations, as measured under GAAP. The items excluded from these non-GAAP metrics but included in
the calculation of their closest GAAP equivalent, are significant components of the consolidated statements of income, consolidated balance sheets and statement of cash flows and must be considered in performing a comprehensive assessment of
overall financial performance.

31

Table of Contents

The following table reconciles GAAP to Non-GAAP Incomeat the balance sheet dates. The columns may not foot due to rounding.

                                                                       Three Months ended                                                                              
                                                                       Oct 31,                                                                                         
                                                                       2023                                                                                            
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Non-operating (loss) Income:                                                                                                      
  GAAP Non-operating (loss) income, net                                $                        18,660        (911       10,797       16,896       27,167       7,452  
  FX (gain) loss                                                                               (13,234       4,543      (10,369       (2,466      (27,344      (7,972  
  Non-GAAP Non-operating (loss) income, net                            $                         5,426       3,632          428       14,430         (177        (520  
  Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Income tax provision:                                                                                                             
  GAAP Income tax provision                                            $                        20,288      16,098       16,074       70,312       59,791      23,190  
  Estimated tax effects of FX (gain) loss                                                        3,437      (1,193        2,522          317        5,933       1,829  
  Non-GAAP Income tax provision                                        $                        16,851      17,291       13,552       69,995       53,858      21,361  
  Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Noncontrolling interests:                                                                                                         
  GAAP Noncontrolling interests                                        $                        18,545      21,296       18,204       74,149       60,456      23,367  
  Estimated noncontrolling interest effects of above                                             2,431       1,328        1,990        2,676        4,275        (481  
  Non-GAAP Noncontrolling interests                                    $                        16,114      19,968       16,214       71,473       56,181      23,848  
  Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Net Income:                                                                                                                       
  GAAP Net Income                                                      $                        44,611      26,959       37,060      125,485      118,786      55,449  
  FX (gain) loss                                                                               (13,234       4,543      (10,369       (2,466      (27,344      (7,972  
  Estimated tax effects of above                                                                 3,437      (1,193        2,522          317        5,933       1,829  
  Estimated noncontrolling interest effects of above                                             2,431       1,328        1,990        2,676        4,275        (481  
  Non-GAAP Net Income                                                  $                        37,245      31,637       31,203      126,012      101,650      48,825  
  Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding - Diluted                                62,067      61,974       61,374       61,755       61,189      61,999  
  Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP EPS:                                                                                                                              
  GAAP diluted earnings per share                                      $                          0.72        0.44         0.60         2.03         1.94        0.89  
  Effects of the above adjustments                                                               (0.12        0.07        (0.10         0.01        (0.28       (0.10  
  Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share                                  $                          0.60        0.51         0.51         2.04         1.66        0.79  

32

Table of Contents

The following table reconciles Net cash provided by operating activitiesto Free Cash Flow for FY23, FY22, and FY21. The columns may not foot due to rounding. Prior year
amounts in the non-GAAP disclosure below have been recast to eliminate government incentives to conform to current year presentation.

                                                  FY23                  FY22                  FY21              
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Free Cash Flow                                                                                                
  Net cash provided by operating activities       $          302.2      $          275.2      $          150.8  
  Purchases of property, plant and equipment                (131.3                (112.3                (109.1  
  Free cash flow                                  $          170.9      $          162.9      $           41.7  

The following table reconciles Cash and cash equivalents to Net Cash at the balance sheet dates. The increase in Net Cash was primarily driven by an increase in Net cash provided by
operating activities, as discussed above. The columns may not foot due to rounding.

                                         As of                                               
                                         October 31,                 October 31,             
  Net Cash                                                                                   
  Cash, cash equivalents                 $                499.3      $                319.7  
  Current portion of Long-term debt                        (6.6                       (10.0  
  Long-term debt                                          (18.0                       (32.3  
  Net cash                               $                474.7      $                277.4  

Business Outlook

Our current business outlook and guidance was provided in our Full Year and Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2023 Results earnings call, and related slide deck. These can be accessed in the investor section of our website -
www.photronics.com.

Our future results of operations and the other forward-looking statements contained in this filing and in our “ Full Year and Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2023 Results” earnings call
and presentation involve a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this report. A number of other unforeseeable factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Our consolidated financial statements are based on the selection and application of accounting policies, which require management to make significant estimates and assumptions. We believe the following to be the more
critical areas that require judgment when applying our accounting policies:

  Revenue Recognition: The application of GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates, including the determination of whether we should ...  

33

Table of Contents

  Property, Plant and Equipment: Significant judgment and assumptions are employed when we establish the estimated useful lives of asset classes, and determine when depreciation should commence f...  
  determinations can significantly impact our gross margin and research and development expenses. Significant judgment would also be employed when events or changes in circumstances indicate that...  
  not be recoverable, as the recoverability assessment requires us to forecast future cash flows related to these assets; this evaluation can significantly impact our gross margin and operating e...  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  Leases: Significant judgment is applied in the determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease and, in certain instances, whether the lease should be classified as an operating...  

  Contingencies: We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Significant judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of a loss, if any, from such cont...  
  it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Changes in estimates related to, and resolutions of, continge...  
  financial performance.                                                                                                                                                                                
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  Income Taxes: Our annual tax rate is determined based on our income and the jurisdictions where it is earned, statutory tax rates, and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purpo...  
  purposes. Also inherent in determining our annual tax rate are judgments and assumptions regarding the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, and our ability to uphold certain tax posit...  
  the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and the manner in which they apply can be open to interpretation. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon generating sufficient taxable...  
  future periods, which involves business plans, planning opportunities, and expectations about future outcomes. Our assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of com...  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

There are a number of estimates and assumptions inherent in calculating the various components of our tax provision. Future events such as changes in tax legislation, geographic mix of earnings, findings in tax audits,
and earnings repatriation plans could have an impact on those estimates and our effective tax rate.

Please refer to Notes 1, 10, 13, and 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to these critical accounting estimates.

Effect of Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements of this report for recent accounting pronouncements that may affect our financial reporting.

34

Table of Contents

  ITEM 7A.      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We conduct business in several major currencies throughout our worldwide operations, and our financial performance may be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rates of these currencies. Changes in exchange rates
can positively or negatively affect our reported revenue, operating income, assets, liabilities, and equity. The functional currencies of our Asian subsidiaries are the South Korean won, the New Taiwan dollar, the RMB, and the Singapore dollar. The
functional currencies of our European subsidiaries are the British pound and the euro. In addition, we engage in transactions and have exposures to the Japanese yen.

We attempt to minimize our risk of foreign currency transaction losses by producing products in the same country in which the products are sold (thereby generating revenues and incurring expenses in the same currency),
and by managing our working capital. However, in some instances, we sell products in a currency other than the functional currency of the country where it was produced, or purchase products in a currency that differs from the functional currency of
the purchasing entity. We may also enter into derivative contracts to mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations when we have a significant purchase obligation or significant receivable denominated in a currency that differs from the
functional currency of the transacting subsidiary. We do not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes. There can be no assurance that this approach will protect us from the need to recognize significant foreign currency transaction gains and
losses, especially in the event of a significant adverse movement in the value of any foreign currency in which we conduct business against any of our functional currencies, including the U.S. dollar.

Our primary net foreign currency exposures as of October 31, 2023, included the South Korean won, the Japanese yen, the New Taiwan dollar, the Chinese renminbi, the Singapore dollar, the British pound sterling, and the
euro. As of October 31, 2023, a 10% adverse movement in the value of these currencies against the functional currencies of our subsidiaries would have resulted in a net unrealized pre-tax loss of $52.0 million, which represents an increase of $17.3
million from the same movement as of October 31, 2022. The increase in foreign currency rate change risk is primarily the result of increased net exposures of the New Taiwan dollar and South Korean won against the U.S. dollar. We do not believe
that a 10% change in the exchange rates of other non-U.S. dollar currencies would have had a material effect on our October 31, 2023, consolidated financial statements.

Interest Rate Risk

A 10% adverse movement in the interest rates on our variable rate borrowings would not have had a material effect on our October 31, 2023, consolidated financial statements.

35

Table of Contents

ITEM 8.

  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                             
                                                                                                   Page  
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Deloitte & Touche LLP (PCAOB ID 34)        37  
  Consolidated                                                                                       38  
  Consolidated Statements of Income                                                                  39  
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive (Loss) Income                                             40  
  Consolidated Statements of Equity                                                                  41  
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                                                              42  
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                                         43  

36

Table of Contents

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of Photronics, Inc.

Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Photronics, Inc. (the “Company”) as of October 31, 2023 and 2022, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended October 31, 2023, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as
of October 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2023, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2023, based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated December 22, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and
are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether
due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures
included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to accounts or
disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements,
taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.

Revenue — Contracts with Customers— Refer to Note 1 & 9 of the financial statements

Critical Audit Matter Description

The Company recognizes revenue over time for in-process production orders that have not shipped for contracts with customers for which it has an enforceable right to bill and collect consideration, including a reasonable profit, in the event the
in-process orders are cancelled by the customers. In addition, as photomasks are manufactured to customer specifications, they have no alternative use to the Company. This results in the Company recording a corresponding contract asset as of
period-end for these contracts. Significant judgment is exercised by the Company in determining the amount of revenue to recognize for these contracts and the corresponding contract asset, specifically in estimating the point within the production
cycle at which the production orders stand in relation to the Company’s enforceable right within the contract. Pursuant to these contracts, revenue recognized over time and the associated contract asset as of October 31, 2023 was $11 million.

We identified the determination of revenue recognized over time for in-process productions orders as of October 31, 2023 as a critical auditing matter because of the significant estimates and assumptions management makes in determining the
amount of revenue to recognize for these contracts. This required a high degree of audit judgment and an increased extent of effort when performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of management’s determination of the progress point
of in-process orders and the amount of revenue recognized over time and the corresponding contract asset as of October 31, 2023.

How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit

Our audit procedures related to the Company’s determination of the progress point of in-process orders and resulting revenue recognized over time and corresponding contract asset as of October 31, 2023 included the following:

- We tested
the operating effectiveness of controls over management’s determination of the point in the production process and correlation to stated contractual rights.

- We tested the
mathematical accuracy of management’s calculations of revenue and the associated timing of revenue recognized in the consolidated financial statements.

- We tested the accuracy
and completeness of the in-process orders report by performing physical observation.

- We selected a sample of
in-process production orders as of October 31, 2023 and performed the following procedures for each selection:

- Obtained and read the customer
agreement/purchase order, invoice, and quote to determine whether the company has an enforceable right to bill and collect consideration.

- Evaluated management’s
identification of significant contract terms and resulting revenue recognition for the in-process production order.

- Evaluated
management estimate of the production point for the in-process order corresponding revenue recognition and contract asset based on the Company’s enforceable right within the contract.

/s/Deloitte & Touche LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

December 22, 2023

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1991.

37

Table of Contents

PHOTRONICS, INC.

Consolidated
Balance Sheets

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

                                                                                                                            October 31,                     October 31,                 
                                                                                                                            2023                            2022                        
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  ASSETS                                                                                                                                                                                
  Current assets:                                                                                                                                                                       
  Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                 $                  499,292      $                  319,680  
  Short-term investments                                                                                                                        12,915                          38,820  
  Accounts receivable, net of allowance of $ 1,099 in 2023 and $ 1,002 in 2022                                                                 194,927                         198,147  
  Inventories                                                                                                                                   49,963                          50,753  
  Other current assets                                                                                                                          28,353                          37,252  
  Total current assets                                                                                                                         785,450                         644,652  
  Property, plant and equipment, net                                                                                                           709,244                         643,873  
  Deferred income taxes                                                                                                                         21,297                          19,816  
  Other assets                                                                                                                                  10,230                           7,489  
  Total assets                                                                                                              $                1,526,221      $                1,315,830  
  LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                                                                                                                                                                
  Current liabilities:                                                                                                                                                                  
  Current portion of long-term debt                                                                                         $                    6,621      $                   10,024  
  Accounts payable                                                                                                                              84,024                          79,566  
  Accrued liabilities                                                                                                                           94,578                         104,207  
  Total current liabilities                                                                                                                    185,223                         193,797  
  Long-term debt                                                                                                                                17,998                          32,310  
  Other liabilities                                                                                                                             47,391                          27,634  
  Total liabilities                                                                                                                            250,612                         253,741  
  Commitments and contingencies                                                                                                                                                         
  Equity:                                                                                                                                                                               
  Preferred stock, $ 0.01 par value, 2,000 shares authorized, none issued and outstanding                                                            -                               -  
  Common stock, $ 0.01 par value, 150,000 shares authorized, 61,310 shares issued and outstanding at October 31, 2023,                             613                             608  
  Additional paid-in capital                                                                                                                   502,010                         493,741  
  Retained earnings                                                                                                                            561,119                         435,634  
  Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                                                                        ( 88,734                        ( 98,456  
  Total Photronics, Inc. shareholders’ equity                                                                                                  975,008                         831,527  
  Noncontrolling interests                                                                                                                     300,601                         230,562  
  Total equity                                                                                                                               1,275,609                       1,062,089  
  Total liabilities and equity                                                                                              $                1,526,221      $                1,315,830  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

38

Table of Contents

PHOTRONICS, INC.

Consolidated
Statements of
Income

(in thousands, except per share amounts)

                                                                Year Ended                                                                            
                                                                October 31,                   October 31,                   October 31,               
                                                                2023                          2022                          2021                      
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Revenue                                                       $                892,076      $                824,549      $                663,761  
  Cost of goods sold                                                             555,914                       530,336                       496,717  
  Gross profit                                                                   336,162                       294,213                       167,044  
  Operating expenses:                                                                                                                                 
  Selling, general and administrative                                             69,458                        63,989                        57,525  
  Research and development                                                        13,654                        18,341                        18,490  
  Total operating expenses                                                        83,112                        82,330                        76,015  
  Other operating (loss) income, net                                                   -                          ( 17                         3,525  
  Operating income                                                               253,050                       211,866                        94,554  
  Non-operating income (expense):                                                                                                                     
  Foreign currency transactions impacts, net                                       2,466                        27,344                         7,972  
  Interest income and other income, net                                           14,863                         1,680                         1,165  
  Interest expense, net of subsidies                                               ( 433                       ( 1,857                       ( 1,685  
  Income before income tax provision                                             269,946                       239,033                       102,006  
  Income tax provision                                                            70,312                        59,791                        23,190  
  Net income                                                                     199,634                       179,242                        78,816  
  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests                             74,149                        60,456                        23,367  
  Net income attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders      $                125,485      $                118,786      $                 55,449  
  Earnings per share:                                                                                                                                 
  Basic                                                         $                   2.05      $                   1.96      $                   0.90  
  Diluted                                                       $                   2.03      $                   1.94      $                   0.89  
  Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding:                                                                                               
  Basic                                                                           61,139                        60,559                        61,407  
  Diluted                                                                         61,755                        61,189                        61,999  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

39

Table of Contents

PHOTRONICS, INC.

Consolidated Statements of

(in thousands)

                                                                                 Year Ended                                                                             
                                                                                 October 31,                   October 31,                     October 31,              
                                                                                 2023                          2022                            2021                     
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net income                                                                     $                199,634      $                  179,242      $                78,816  
  Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax of $ 0:                                                                                                                 
  Foreign currency translation adjustments                                                          5,615                       ( 151,209                        8,478  
  Other                                                                                               ( 3                             423                         ( 69  
  Net other comprehensive income (loss)                                                             5,612                       ( 150,786                        8,409  
  Comprehensive income                                                                            205,246                          28,456                       87,225  
  Less: comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests                              70,039                          28,697                       29,163  
  Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders      $                135,207      $                    ( 241      $                58,062  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

40

Table of Contents

PHOTRONICS, INC.

Consolidated
Statements of
Equity

Years Ended October 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021

(in thousands)

  Balance at October 31, 2020                    63,138       631       507,336       279,037       17,958         157,304         962,266  
  Net income                                     -            -         -             55,449        -              23,367           78,816  
  Other comprehensive income                     -            -         -             -             2,613          5,796             8,409  
  Shares issued under equity plans               805          8         3,561         -             -              -                 3,569  
  Share-based compensation expense               -            -         5,348         -             -              -                 5,348  
  Dividends to noncontrolling interest           -            -         -             -             -              ( 9,597         ( 9,597  
  Purchases of treasury stock                    -            -         -             -             -              -              ( 48,249  
  Retirement of treasury stock                   ( 3,919      ( 39      ( 31,573      ( 16,637      -              -                     -  
  Balance at October 31, 2021                    60,024       600       484,672       317,849       20,571         176,870       1,000,562  
  Net income                                     -            -         -             118,786       -              60,456          179,242  
  Other comprehensive loss                       -            -         -             -             ( 119,027      ( 31,759      ( 150,786  
  Shares issued under equity plans               954          10        4,280         -             -              -                 4,290  
  Share-based compensation expense               -            -         6,308         -             -              -                 6,308  
  Contribution from noncontrolling interest      -            -         -             -             -              24,995           24,995  
  Purchases of treasury stock                    -            -         -             -             -              -               ( 2,522  
  Retirement of treasury stock                   ( 187        ( 2       ( 1,519       ( 1,001       -              -                     -  
  Balance at October 31, 2022                    60,791       608       493,741       435,634       ( 98,456       230,562       1,062,089  
  Net income                                     -            -         -             125,485       -              74,149          199,634  
  Other comprehensive income (loss)              -            -         -             -             9,722          ( 4,110           5,612  
  Shares issued under equity plans               519          5         268           -             -              -                   273  
  Share-based compensation expense               -            -         8,001         -             -              -                 8,001  
  Balance at October 31, 2023                    61,310       613       502,010       561,119       ( 88,734       300,601       1,275,609  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

41

Table of Contents

PHOTRONICS, INC.

Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows

(in thousands)

                                                                                         Year Ended                                                                                  
                                                                                         October 31,                     October 31,                     October 31,                 
                                                                                         2023                            2022                            2021                        
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Cash flows from operating activities:                                                                                                                                              
  Net income                                                                             $                  199,634      $                  179,242      $                   78,816  
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:                                                                                                  
  Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment                                             80,473                          79,971                          87,535  
  Amortization of intangible assets                                                                             362                             359                           2,861  
  Share-based compensation                                                                                    8,001                           6,308                           5,348  
  Deferred income taxes                                                                                       ( 927                             809                         ( 2,110  
  Changes in assets, liabilities, and other:                                                                                                                                         
  Accounts receivable                                                                                         4,026                        ( 51,233                        ( 36,620  
  Inventories                                                                                                 1,236                         ( 2,039                           2,987  
  Other current assets                                                                                        9,665                           1,204                        ( 13,472  
  Accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other                                                             ( 294                          60,566                          25,427  
  Net cash provided by operating activities                                                                 302,176                         275,187                         150,772  
  Cash flows from investing activities:                                                                                                                                              
  Purchases of property, plant and equipment                                                              ( 131,295                       ( 112,338                       ( 109,099  
  Purchases of available-for-sale debt securities                                                          ( 20,192                        ( 38,854                               -  
  Proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale debt securities                                             47,537                               -                               -  
  Government incentives                                                                                       2,522                           3,615                           5,775  
  Purchases of intangible assets                                                                              ( 117                           ( 205                           ( 170  
  Other                                                                                                           -                              25                               -  
  Net cash used in investing activities                                                                   ( 101,545                       ( 147,757                       ( 103,494  
  Cash flows from financing activities:                                                                                                                                              
  Repayments of debt                                                                                       ( 18,439                        ( 65,440                        ( 20,352  
  Purchases of treasury stock                                                                                     -                         ( 2,522                        ( 48,249  
  Contributions from noncontrolling interests                                                                     -                          24,995                               -  
  Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests                                                                      -                               -                         ( 9,597  
  Proceeds from share-based arrangements                                                                      1,248                           5,749                           3,874  
  Proceeds from long-term debt                                                                                    -                               -                          20,858  
  Net settlements of restricted stock awards                                                                ( 1,302                         ( 1,471                           ( 437  
  Net cash used in financing activities                                                                    ( 18,493                        ( 38,689                        ( 53,903  
  Effects of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash                           ( 2,680                        ( 46,012                           4,703  
  Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash                                    179,458                          42,729                         ( 1,922  
  Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at beginning of year                                          322,409                         279,680                         281,602  
  Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash at end of year                                                501,867                         322,409                         279,680  
  Less: Ending restricted cash                                                                                2,575                           2,729                           3,010  
  Cash and cash equivalents at end of year                                               $                  499,292      $                  319,680      $                  276,670  
  Supplemental disclosure of non-cash information:                                                                                                                                   
  Accruals for property, plant and equipment purchased during year                       $                   18,607      $                    3,266      $                    7,794  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

42

Table of Contents

PHOTRONICS, INC.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Years Ended October 31, 2023, October 31, 2022 and October 31, 2021

(in thousands, except share amounts)

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Business

Photronics, Inc. (“Photronics”, “the Company”, “we”, “our”, or “us”) is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of photomasks, which are high-precision
photographic quartz or glass plates containing microscopic images of electronic circuits. Photomasks are a key element in the manufacture of ICs and FPDs, and are used as masters to transfer circuit patterns onto semiconductor wafers and FPD
substrates during the fabrication of integrated circuits, a variety of FPDs and, to a lesser extent, other types of electrical and optical components. We currently haveelevenmanufacturing facilities, located in Taiwan (3), China (2), Korea, the United States (3), and Europe (2).

Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Photronics, Inc., its wholly owned subsidiaries, and the majority-owned subsidiaries which it controls. All intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Estimates and Assumptions

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with U.S.GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in them. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable, based on the facts and
circumstances available at the time they are made. Subsequent actual results may differ from such estimates. We review these estimates periodically and reflect any effects of revisions in the period in which they are determined.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash and highly liquid investments
with an original maturity of three months or less, readily convertible to known amounts of cash, and so near to their maturity that they present insignificant risk of changes in value because of changes in interest rates. The carrying values of cash equivalents approximate their fair values, due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.

Investments

Investments consist of U. S. government securities and are classified as available-for-sale. We classify available-for-sale
securities on our consolidated balance sheet as follows:

  Maturing within three months or less from the date of purchase                    Cash and cash equivalents         
  Maturing, as of the date of purchase, more than three months, but                 Short-term investments            
  with remaining maturities of less than one year, from the balance sheet date                                        
  Maturing one year or more from the balance sheet date                             Long-term marketable investments  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

As of October 31, 2023, and October 31, 2022, all of our available-for-sale securities had remaining maturities less than one
year, and have been classified as Short-term investments.

Available-for-sale debt investments are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains or losses (net of tax) reported in Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. The fair values of our available-for-sale securities are Level 1 measurements, based on quoted prices from active markets for identical assets. In the event of a
sale of an available-for-sale debt investment, we would determine the cost of the investment sold at the specific individual security level, and would include any gain or loss inInterest income and other
income, net, where we also report periodic interest earned and the amortization (accretion) of discounts (premiums) related to these investments. The table below provides information on our available-for-sale debt securities.

  October 31, 2023                                                    October 31, 2022                                                
  Amortized             Unrealized      Unrealized      Carrying      Amortized             Unrealized      Unrealized      Carrying  
  Cost                  Gains           Losses          Value         Cost                  Gains           Losses          Value     
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  $                     $               $               $             $                     $               $               $         

Periodically, at the individual security level, we review our investments to determine if they are impaired. An investment would
be impaired if its amortized cost exceeds its fair value. In the event that an investment’s amortized cost exceeds its fair value, we would determine whether the impairment is temporary or other than temporary. Factors indicating that an other
than temporary impairment had occurred that we would consider in our determination include whether we have decided to sell the security and whether it is more likely than not that we may be required to sell the security before its amortized cost
basis is recovered. In addition, for certain types of securities, we would assess whether the discounted cash flows we expect to collect on an investment are less than its amortized cost and, under such a circumstance, recognize the existing
credit loss as an impairment.

Accounts Receivable, Unbilled Receivables and Allowance for Credit Losses

Wegenerally record our accounts receivable at their billed
amounts. The Company recognizes unbilled receivables when the Company has
satisfied its performance obligations, has an unconditional right to consideration, but has not yet issued an invoice. All outstanding past due customer invoices are reviewed for collectability during, and at the end of, every
reporting period. To the extent that we believe a loss on the collection of a customer invoice is probable, we record the loss and credit an allowance for credit losses. In the event that an amount is determined to be uncollectible, we charge the
allowance for credit losses and derecognize the related receivable. Refer to our revenue recognition policy, below, for additional information on our accounting for accounts receivable.

43

Table of Contents

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined under the
first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method, or net realizable value. Please refer to Note 4 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our inventories. Inventory reserves are established when conditions indicate that the net
realizable value is less than costs due to assigned expiration dates or other causes based on individual facts and circumstances. If net realizable value is less than cost at the balance sheet date, the carrying amount is reduced to the realizable
value, and the difference is recognized as a loss on valuation of inventories within cost of sales.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment, except as explained below under “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets,” is stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Repairs and maintenance, as well as renewals and replacements of a routine nature, are charged to operations as incurred, while those that improve or extend the lives of existing assets are capitalized. Upon sale or
other disposition, the cost of the asset and its related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts, and any resulting gain or loss is reflected in earnings.

Depreciation and amortization, essentially all of which are included in Cost of goods soldin our consolidated statements of income, are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Buildings and improvements are depreciated over10to39years, machinery and equipment
over5to15years, and
furniture, fixtures, and office equipment over3to5years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the life of the lease or the estimated useful life of the improvement. We employ judgment when making assumptions about the
estimated useful lives and depreciation periods we assign to property, plant and equipment, and when events or changes in circumstances such as a significant industry downturn, plant closures, technological obsolescence, or other occurrences indicate
that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such
assets may not be recoverable. Determinations of recoverability are based upon our judgment and estimates of undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. Measurement of an impairment loss for
long-lived assets that we expect to hold and use is based on the fair value of the assets, determined using a market or income approach, compared with the carrying value of the asset. The carrying values of assets determined to be impaired would be
reduced to their estimated fair values.

44

Table of Contents

Restricted Cash

Restricted cash in the amounts of $2.6million and $2.7million are included in Other assetson our October 31, 2023 and October 31,
2022, consolidated balance sheets, respectively. The restrictions on these amounts are primarily related to land lease agreements and customs requirements.

Treasury Stock

We record treasury stock purchases under the cost method, recording
the entire cost of the acquired stock as treasury stock. Gains and losses on subsequent reissuances would be credited or charged to additional paid-in capital, and we would employ the average cost method (with average cost being determined separately
for each share repurchase program), in the event that we subsequently reissue shares. When we retire our treasury stock, any excess of the
repurchase price paid over par value is allocated between additional paid-in capital and retained earnings.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue when, or as, control of a good or service transfers to a customer, in an amount that reflects the
consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring those goods or services. We account for an arrangement as a revenue contract when each party has approved and is committed to perform under the contract, the rights of the
contracting parties regarding the goods or services to be transferred and the payment terms are identifiable, the arrangement has commercial substance, and collection of consideration is probable. Substantially all of our revenue comes from the sales
of photomasks. We typically contract with our customers to sell sets of photomasks, which are comprised of multiple layers, the predominance of which we invoice as they ship to customers. As the photomasks are manufactured to customer specifications,
they have no alternative use to us and, as our contracts generally provide us with the right to payment for work completed to date, we recognize revenue as we perform, or “over time,” on most of our contracts. We measure our performance to date using
an input method, which is based on our estimated costs to complete the various manufacturing phases of a photomask. At the end of a reporting period, there are a number of uncompleted revenue contracts on which we have performed; for any such
contracts under which we are entitled to be compensated for our costs incurred plus a reasonable profit, we recognize revenue and a corresponding contract asset for such performance. We account for shipping and handling activities that we perform
after a customer obtains control of a good as being activities to fulfill our promise to transfer the good to the customer, rather than as promised services, or performance obligations, under the contract. We report our revenue net of any sales or
similar taxes we collect on behalf of governmental entities.

As stated above, photomasks are manufactured to customer specifications in accordance with their proprietary designs; thus, they are
individually unique. Due to their uniqueness and other factors, their transaction prices are individually established through negotiations with customers; consequently, our photomasks do not have standard or “list” prices. The transaction prices of
the vast majority of our revenue contracts include only fixed amounts of consideration. In certain instances, such as when we offer a customer an early payment discount, an estimate of variable consideration would be included in the transaction
price, but only to the extent that a significant reversal of revenue would not occur when the uncertainty related to the variability was resolved.

45

Table of Contents

Contract Assets, Contract Liabilities, and Accounts Receivable

We recognize a contract asset when our performance under a contract precedes our receipt of consideration from a customer, or before
payment is due, and our receipt of consideration is conditional upon factors other than the passage of time. Contract assets reflect our transfer of control to customers of photomasks that are in process or completed but not yet shipped to customers.
A receivable is recognized when we have an unconditional right to payment for our performance, which generally occurs when we ship the photomasks. Our contract assets primarily consist of a significant amount of our in-process production orders and
fully manufactured photomasks which have not yet shipped, for which we have an enforceable right to collect consideration (including a reasonable profit) in the event the in-process orders are cancelled by customers. On an individual contract basis,
we net contract assets with contract liabilities (deferred revenue) for financial reporting purposes. We didnot impair any contract
assets or accounts receivable in 2023, 2022, or 2021.

Contract Costs

We pay commissions to third-party sales agents for certain sales that they procure on our behalf. However, the bases of the
commissions are the transaction prices of the sales, which are completed in less than one year; thus, no relationship is established with a customer that will result in future business. Therefore, we would not recognize any portion of these sales
commissions as costs of obtaining a contract, nor do we currently foresee other circumstances under which we would recognize such assets.

Remaining Performance Obligations

As we are typically required to fulfill customer orders within a short time period, our backlog of orders is generally not in
excess of oneto twoweeks
for IC photomasks and twoto threeweeks for FPD photomasks. However, the demand for some IC photomasks can extend beyond the traditional time period; thus the backlog, in some individual cases, can extend to as long as twotothree months. As allowed under Topic 606, we have elected not to disclose
our remaining performance obligations, which represent the costs associated with the completion of the manufacturing process of in-process photomasks related to contracts that have an original duration of one year or less.

Product Warranties

Our photomasks are sold under warranties that generally range from onetotwenty-four months. We warrant that our photomasks conform to customer
specifications, and we will typically repair, replace, or issue a refund for any photomasks that fail to do so. The warranties do not represent separate performance obligations in our revenue contracts. Historically, customer claims under warranties have been immaterial.

46

Table of Contents

Leases

We determine if an agreement is, or contains, a lease on the earlier of the date of the agreement or the date on which we commit to
entering the agreement and evaluate at that time whether the lease is an operating lease or a finance lease. We recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for operating and finance leases with terms greater than 12 months. Please refer
to Note 10 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Our involvement in lease arrangements has typically been as a lessee. We determine if an agreement is, or contains, a lease on
the earlier of the date of the agreement or the date on which we commit to entering the agreement. An arrangement is determined to be a lease when it conveys to us the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in
exchange for consideration. Our having the right to control an identified asset is determined by whether we are entitled to substantially all of its economic benefits and can direct its use. We recognize leases on our consolidated balance sheet
when a lessor makes an asset underlying a lease having a term in excess of twelve months available for our use. As allowed under ASC Topic 842 - “Leases” (“Topic 842”), we have elected 1) not to apply the recognition requirements to leases
that, at their commencement dates, have lease terms of twelve months or less and do not include options to purchase their underlying assets that we are reasonably certain to exercise and 2) for all classes of assets, the practical expedient to
not separate lease components of a contract from nonlease components of a contract.

If an arrangement is determined to be, or include, a lease, we then apply the classification criteria in Topic 842 to determine
whether the lease is a finance lease or an operating lease. For both types of leases, at their commencement dates (which are the dates on which a lessor makes an underlying asset available for our use), we recognize ROU assets, which represent our
rights to use the underlying assets, and lease liabilities which represent our obligation to make payments for such rights. The present value of lease payments over the term of the lease provides the basis for the initial measurement of ROU assets
and their related lease liabilities. Variable lease payments, other than those that are dependent on an index or on a rate (at which they are measured on their commencement dates), are not included in the measurement of ROU assets and their related
lease liabilities. Lease terms include extension periods if the lease agreement includes an option to extend the lease that we are reasonably certain to exercise.

The initial measurement process for finance leases and operating leases is the same, except that, for operating leases, we
generally apply our incremental borrowing rates for collateralized borrowings over terms similar to those of the leases to determine the lease liability while, for finance leases, we use the interest rates implicit in the leases. The initial
measurement of ROU assets may require further adjustments for lease prepayments and initial direct costs we incur.

Operating leases are expensed on a straight-line basis over the terms of the leases, and are included in the consolidated
statement of income in Cost of goods sold, Selling, general and
administrative, or Research and developmentexpense in accordance with the use of the underlying asset. Finance lease ROU assets are amortized over
the estimated useful life of the underlying asset; the expenses are included in the consolidated statement of income in Cost of goods sold. Finance lease
liabilities are subsequently remeasured by increasing the liability to reflect interest accrued during a period and decreasing the liability to reflect payments made during the period. Interest expense incurred on finance leases is included in Interest expenseon the consolidated statements of income.

Cash paid for operating leases and interest paid for finance leases are included in the consolidated statement of cash flows as
operating activities in Accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other; cash paid for finance lease principal is included in Repayments of debtin the financing
activities section of the consolidated statement of cash flows.

Share-Based Compensation

We recognize share-based compensation expense over the service period during which the awards are expected to vest. Share-based
compensation expense includes the estimated effects of forfeitures, which are adjusted over the requisite service period to the extent actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from such estimates. Changes in estimated forfeitures are
recognized in the period of change and will impact the amount of expense to be recognized in future periods. Determining the appropriate option pricing model, calculating the grant date fair value of share-based awards, and estimating forfeiture
rates requires considerable judgment, including estimations of stock price volatility and the expected term of options granted.

We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value employee stock options. We estimate stock price volatility based on daily
averages of our common stock’s historical volatility over a term approximately equal to the estimated time period the grant will remain outstanding. The expected term of options and forfeiture rate assumptions are derived from historical data.

47

Table of Contents

Research and Development

Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of development efforts related to high-end process
technologies for advanced subwavelength reticle solutions for IC and FPD photomask technologies.

Foreign Currency Translation

Our non-U.S. subsidiaries maintain their books of account in their respective local currencies, which are their functional
currencies. Assets and liabilities of such subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates. Income and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. Foreign currency translation adjustments
are accumulated and reported in Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, a component of equity on our consolidated balance sheets.

Government Grants

The Company receives grants from governments in support of
certain of the Company’s business activities, primarily related to capital expenditures and research and development activities. Grants are generally received in the form of cash as either a recovery for expenses incurred, qualified assets
purchased or as an incentive for meeting certain eligibility requirements that may be part of a grant agreement. Grant agreements terms generally extend for a period of up to 4

Income Taxes

The income tax provision is computed on the basis of the income or loss before income taxes for each entity in its respective tax
jurisdiction. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effects of differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their amounts used for income tax purposes, as well as the tax effects of net
operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. We employ judgment and make assumptions when establishing valuation allowances for deferred income tax assets, if their realization is not deemed to be more likely than not, by considering future market
growth, operating forecasts, future taxable income, and the mix of earnings among the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. Accordingly, income taxes charged against earnings may have been impacted by changes in the valuation allowances. We are
eligible for investment tax credits in U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. We account for investment tax credits under the “flow-through” method of accounting. As permitted in ASC 740 “Income Taxes”, under the flow-through method of accounting, the
tax benefit from an investment tax credit is recorded as a reduction of income taxes in the period in which the credit is generated.

We consider income taxes in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate in order to determine our effective income tax rate.
Our current income tax expense is thus identified, and temporary differences resulting from differing treatments of items for tax and financial reporting purposes are assessed. These differences result in deferred tax assets, which are presented on
our consolidated balance sheets, and deferred tax liabilities, which are included in Other liabilitieson our consolidated balance sheets.

We account for uncertain tax positions by recording a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions
taken, or expected to be taken, in our tax returns. We include any applicable interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the liability and in our income tax provision.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share (“EPS”) is based on the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period, excluding any
dilutive common share equivalents. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if certain share-based payment awards were exercised or earned.

48

Table of Contents

Variable Interest Entities

We account for the investments we make in certain legal entities in which equity investors do not have: 1) sufficient equity at risk
for the legal entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or, 2) as a group, the holders of the equity investment at risk do not have either the power, through voting or similar rights, to direct the activities
of the legal entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance or, 3) the obligation to absorb the expected losses of the legal entity or the right to receive expected residual returns of the legal entity as “variable interest
entities”, or “VIEs”.

We consolidate the results of any such entity in which we have determined that we have a controlling financial interest. We would
have a “controlling financial interest” (and thus be considered the “primary beneficiary” of the entity) in such an entity when we have both the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the VIE’s economic performance and the
obligation to absorb the losses of, or right to receive the benefits from, the VIE that could be potentially significant to the VIE. On a quarterly basis, we reassess whether we have a controlling financial interest in any investments we have in
these entities.

We would account for investments we make in VIEs in which we have determined that we do not have a controlling financial interest
but have a significant influence over, and hold at least atwentypercent ownership interest in, using the equity method. An investment
not meeting the parameters to be accounted for under the equity method would be accounted for using the cost method, unless the investment had a readily determinable fair value, at which value it would then be reported.

NOTE 2 - ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

The

components of Accounts Receivable at the
balance sheet dates are presented below.

                                   October 31,                   October 31,               
                                   2023                          2022                      
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Accounts Receivable              $                171,433      $                178,303  
  Unbilled Receivable                                24,593                        20,846  
  Allowance for Credit Losses                       ( 1,099                       ( 1,002  
                                   $                194,927      $                198,147  

NOTE 3 - OTHER CURRENT ASSETS

Presented below are the components of Other current assetsat
the balance sheet dates.

                                           October 31,                  October 31,              
                                           2023                         2022                     
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Contract assets                          $                10,984      $                15,752  
  Prepaid expenses                                          10,031                        8,263  
  Other                                                      2,537                          814  
  Prepaid and refundable income taxes                        2,489                        9,709  
  Recoverable value added taxes                              2,312                        2,714  
                                           $                28,353      $                37,252  

NOTE 4 - INVENTORIESThe components of Inventoriesat the balance sheet dates are presented below.

                       October 31,                  October 31,              
                       2023                         2022                     
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Raw materials        $                48,948      $                49,326  
  Work in process                        1,010                        1,408  
  Finished goods                             5                           19  
                       $                49,963      $                50,753  

49

Table of Contents

NOTE 5 - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET

Presented below are the components of Property, plant and equipment, netat the balance
sheet dates.

                                                 October 31,      October 31,  
                                                        2023             2022  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Land                                               $11,378          $11,134  
  Buildings and improvements                         185,850          168,024  
  Machinery and equipment                          1,922,041        1,769,478  
  Leasehold improvements                              18,894           18,802  
  Furniture, fixtures, and office equipment           15,856           14,355  
  Construction in progress                            55,434           90,846  
                                                   2,209,453        2,072,639  
  Accumulated depreciation and amortization      ( 1,500,209      ( 1,428,766  
                                                    $709,244         $643,873  

Information on ROU assets resulting from finance leases, at the balance sheet dates, is presented below.

                                October 31,      October 31,  
                                       2023             2022  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Machinery and equipment           $42,820          $42,760  
  Accumulated amortization          ( 7,655          ( 4,784  
                                    $35,165          $37,976  

The following table presents depreciation expense (including the amortization of ROU assets) related to property, plant and
equipment incurred during the reporting periods. Years Ended
October 31, October 31, October 31,
2023 2022 2021
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Depreciation Expense $ 80,472 $ 79,971 $ 87,535

In the third quarter of 2021, we recorded a $3.5million gain on the trade-in of a lithography tool with a tool vendor as partial compensation for a more advanced tool.

NOTE 6 - PDMCX JOINT VENTURE

In January 2018, Photronics, Inc. through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Photronics “ ”,49.99% interest in our
IC business in Xiamen, China. The joint venture, which we refer to as “PDMCX”, was established to develop and manufacture photomasks for semiconductors. We entered into this joint venture to enable us to compete more effectively for the
merchant photomask business in China, and to benefit from the additional resources and investment that DNP provides to enable us to offer advanced-process technology to our customers.

In 2020, in combination with local financing obtained by PDMCX, Photronics and DNP fulfilled their investment obligations under the PDMCX operating
agreement (“the Agreement”). As discussed in Note 8, liens were granted to the local financing entity on property, plant, and equipment and were paid off during fiscal year 2023. These liens had an October 31, 2022, total carrying value of$70.7million, as collateral for the loans.

Under the Agreement, DNP is afforded, under certain circumstances, the right to put its interest in PDMCX to Photronics. These
circumstances include disputes regarding the strategic direction of PDMCX that may arise after the initialtwo-yearterm of the Agreement
that cannot be resolved between the two parties. As of the date of issuance of these financial statements, DNP had not indicated its intention to exercise this right. In addition, both Photronics and DNP have the option to purchase, or put, their
interest from, or to, the other party, should their ownership interest fall belowtwentypercent for a period of more than sixconsecutive months. Under all such circumstances, the sales of ownership interests would be at the exiting party’s ownership percentage of the joint
venture’s net book value, with closing to take place within threebusiness days of obtaining required approvals and clearance.

The following table presents net income we recorded from the operations of PDMCX during the reporting periods.

                             Years Ended                                                                       
                             October 31,                  October 31,                  October 31,             
                             2023                         2022                         2021                    
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net income from PDMCX      $                25,098      $                16,714      $                6,425  

As required by the guidance in ASC Topic 810 - “Consolidation”, we evaluated our involvement in PDMCX for the purpose of determining whether we should
consolidate its results in our financial statements. The initial step of our evaluation was to determine whether PDMCX was a VIE. Due to its lack of sufficient equity at risk to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial
support, we determined that it is a VIE. Having made this determination, we then assessed whether we were the primary beneficiary of the VIE, and concluded that we were the primary beneficiary during the current and prior years reporting periods;
thus, as required, the PDMCX financial results have been consolidated with Photronics. Our conclusion was based on the fact that we held a controlling financial interest in PDMCX (which resulted from our having the power to direct the activities that
most significantly impacted its economic performance) and had both the obligation to absorb losses and the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to PDMCX. Our conclusions that we had the power to direct the activities that
most significantly affected the economic performance of PDMCX during the current and prior year periods were based on our right to appoint the majority of its board of directors, which has, among others, the powers to manage the business (through its
rights to appoint and evaluate PDMCX’s management), incur indebtedness, enter into agreements and commitments, and acquire and dispose of PDMCX’s assets. In addition, as a result of the50.01% variable interest we held during the current and prior year periods, we had the obligation to absorb losses, and the right to receive benefits, that could potentially be
significant to PDMCX.

50

Table of Contents

The following table presents the carrying amounts of PDMCX assets and liabilities included in our consolidated balance sheets. General creditors of PDMCX
do not have recourse to the assets of Photronics (other than the net assets of PDMCX); therefore, our maximum exposure to loss from PDMCX is our interest in the carrying amount of the net assets of the joint venture.

                              October 31, 2023                                                October 31, 2022                            
  Classification              Carrying                           Photronics                   Carrying                                    
                              Amount                             Interest                     Amount                                      
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Current assets              $                     135,960      $                67,994      $                     127,542       63,784  
  Noncurrent assets                                 136,334                       68,181                            119,392       59,708  
  Total assets                                      272,294                      136,175                            246,934      123,492  
  Current liabilities                                36,305                       18,156                             51,274       25,643  
  Noncurrent liabilities                              1,873                          937                              9,161        4,581  
  Total liabilities                                  38,178                       19,093                             60,435       30,224  
  Net assets                  $                     234,116      $               117,082      $                     186,499       93,268  

NOTE 7 - ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Presented

below are the components of Accrued liabilitiesat the balance sheet dates. Prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

                                        October 31,      October 31,  
                                               2023             2022  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Compensation related expenses             $37,218          $33,061  
  Income taxes                               24,080           37,595  
  Contract liabilities                        9,965           18,872  
  Property, plant, and equipment              6,624            2,989  
  Value added and other taxes                 3,523            2,923  
  Service Contracts                           2,613              762  
  Operating leases                            1,912            1,354  
  Telecommunications and utilities            1,311            1,111  
  Other                                       7,332            5,540  
  Accrued liabilities                       $94,578         $104,207  

51

Table of Contents

NOTE 8 - DEBT

Due to the Q2 FY23 payoff of the Xiamen Project loans, as of October 31, 2023, the Current portion of long-term debt and the Long-term debt balances
were comprised of finance leases as described below:

  As of October 31, 2023                   Xiamen                               Finance                                 Total              
                                           Project Loans                        Leases                                                     
                                           Xiamen                                                                                          
                                           Project Loans                                                                                   
                                           Xiamen                                                                                          
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Principal due:                                                                                                                           
  Next 12 months                           $                                    $                            6,621      $           6,621  
  Months 13 – 24                           $                                    $                           17,972      $          17,972  
  Months 25 – 36                                                                                                12                     12  
  Months 37 – 48                                                                                                13                     13  
  Months 49 – 60                                                                                                 1                      1  
  Long-term debt                                                                                            17,998                 17,998  
  Total debt                               $                                    $                           24,619      $          24,619  
  Interest rate at balance sheet date      N/A                                  N/A                                                        
  Basis spread on interest rates           0.00                                 N/A                                                        
  Interest rate reset                      Quarterly                            N/A                                                        
  Maturity date                            December 2025                        N/A                                                        
  Periodic payment amount                  Varies as loans mature (1)           Varies as Lease mature                                     
  Periodic payment frequency               Semiannual, on individual loans      Monthly                                                    
  Loan collateral (carrying amount)        $                                    $                           35,165                         

(1) During Q2 FY23, we

  (2)      Represents the carrying amount at the balance sheet date of the related ROU assets, in which the lessors have secured  

The tables below provide information on our long-term debt as of October 31, 2022.

  As of October 31, 2022                   Xiamen Project                                         Xiamen Working                                                               
                                           Loans                                                  Capital Loans                                                                
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Principal due:                                                                                                                                                               
  Next 12 months                           $                                    -                 $                                    3,512      -        6,512       10,024  
  Months 13 – 24                           $                                    -                 $                                    -          -        6,610        6,610  
  Months 25 – 36                                                                1,098                                                  -          -        17,961      19,059  
  Months 37 – 48                                                                6,641                                                  -          -        -            6,641  
  Long-term debt                           $                                    7,739             $                                    -          -        24,571      32,310  
  Interest rate at balance sheet date                                           4.30% - 4.45                                           4.46       N/A                          
  Basis spread on interest rates                                                0.00                                                   76.00      N/A      N/A                 
  Interest rate reset                      Quarterly                                              Monthly/Annually                                N/A      N/A                 
  Maturity date                            December 2025                                          July 2023                                                                    
  Periodic payment amount                  Varies as loans mature (1)                             Increases as loans mature                       N/A                          
  Periodic payment frequency               Semiannual, on individual loans                        Semiannual, on individual loans                 N/A                          
  Loan collateral (carrying amount)        $                                    70,705                                                 N/A        N/A      37,976              

  (1)      During the three month period ended October 31, 2022, we repaid                                                                    
           RMB 81.0 million (approximately $ 11.5 million) that had contractual maturity dates ranging from December 2023 through June 2025.  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  (2)      See Note 10 for interest rates on lease liabilities, maturity  

  (3)      Represents the carrying amount at the balance sheet date of the   

Finance LeasesIn February 2021, we entered into afive-year$7.2million finance lease for a high-end inspection tool. Monthly payments on the lease,
which commenced in February 2021, are $0.1million per month. Upon the payment of the fiftieth monthly payment and prior to payment of
the fifty-first monthly payment, we may exercise an early buyout option to purchase the tool for $2.4million. If we do not exercise
the early buyout option, then at the end of thefive-yearlease term, the lease shall continue to renew on a month-to-month basis at
the same rental terms; at our option, after the original term or any renewal periods, we may return the tool, elect to extend the lease, or purchase the tool at its fair market value. Since we are reasonably certain that we will exercise the
early buyout option, our lease liability reflects such exercise and we have classified the lease as a finance lease. The interest rate implicit in the lease is1.08%. In
December 2020, we entered into a five-year 35.5 0.04 0.6 0.5 14.1 five-year 1.58 5.0

52

Table of Contents

Xiamen Project Loans

In November 2018, PDMCX obtained approval to borrow RMB345.0million from the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China. From November 2018 through July 2020, PDMCX entered into separate loan agreements (the “Project Loans”) for the entire
approved amount. In February 2023, PDMCX repaid the entire outstanding balance of RMB26.4million ($3.9million). As of October 31, 2023, PDMCX hadnoamount outstanding and the amounts may not be re-borrowed. The Project Loans were used to finance certain capital expenditures at the PDMCX facility and were collateralized by liens granted on the land use right, building, and certain equipment
located at the facility. The interest rates on the Project Loans were variable (based on the RMB Loan Prime Rate of the National Interbank Funding Center), and interest incurred on the loans was eligible for reimbursement through incentives
provided by the Xiamen Torch Hi-Tech Industrial Development Zone, which provided for such reimbursements up to a prescribed limit and duration. The Project Loans were subject to covenants and provisions, certain of which related to the assets
pledged as security for the loans, all of which we were in compliance with at the time of repayment.

Xiamen Working Capital Loans

In November 2018, PDMCX obtained approval for revolving, unsecured credit of the equivalent of $25.0million, pursuant to which PDMCX may enter into separate loan agreements with varying terms to maturity. This facility is subject to annual reviews
and extensions, with the most recent extension set to expire in July 2024. In December 2022, we repaid our entire outstanding balance of
RMB25.6million ($3.6million) and the amounts may not be re-borrowed. As of October 31, 2023, PDMCX hadnoamount outstanding against the approval. The
interest rates are variable, based on the RMB Loan Prime Rate of the National Interbank Funding Center. Interest incurred on the loans related to the amount borrowed was eligible for reimbursement through incentives provided by the Xiamen Torch
Hi-Tech Industrial Development Zone, which provided for such reimbursements up to a prescribed limit and duration.

Corporate Credit AgreementIn September 2018, we
entered into a five-year 50 100 50 no

Hefei Equipment Loan

In October 2020, our Hefei, China, facility was approved to borrow RMB200million from the China Construction Bank Corporation. In July 2022, we repaid our entire outstanding balance of RMB120.7million ($18.0million). This
credit facility was subject to annual reviews and extension; the most recent extension expired in August 2022, and we did not apply for
an extension. The loan proceeds were used to fund purchases oftwolithography tools at the Hefei facility. The interest rate on the
loan was variable and based on the RMB Loan Prime Rate of the National Interbank Funding Center. The borrowings were secured by the Hefei facility, its related land use right, and certain manufacturing equipment. The Hefei Equipment Loan was
subject to covenants and provisions, certain of which relate to the assets pledged as security for the loan, including covenants for the ratio of total liabilities to total assets and the ratio of current assets to current liabilities, all of which
we were in compliance with at the time of repayment.

Interest Paid for Debt

Interest payments, including capitalized interest of $0.1million in 2021, were $0.5million in
2023, $2.8million in 2022, and $3.8million in 2021. The weighted-average interest rate on our current portion of long-term debt for the periods ended October 31, 2023 and October 31, 2022 was1.5% and2.5%, respectively.

53

Table of Contents

NOTE 9 - REVENUE

The following tables present our revenue for the years ended October 31, 2023, October 31, 2022, and October 31, 2021, disaggregated
by product type, geographic origin, and timing of recognition.

                               Year Ended                                                                            
  Revenue by Product Type      October 31,                   October 31,                   October 31,               
                               2023                          2022                          2021                      
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  IC                                                                                                                 
  High-end                     $                194,939      $                195,332      $                162,973  
  Mainstream                                    456,340                       397,694                       297,198  
  Total IC                     $                651,279      $                593,026      $                460,171  
  FPD                                                                                                                
  High-end                     $                200,842      $                186,988      $                155,670  
  Mainstream                                     39,955                        44,535                        47,920  
  Total FPD                    $                240,797      $                231,523      $                203,590  
                               $                892,076      $                824,549      $                663,761  

                                     Year Ended                                                                            
  Revenue by Geographic Origin*      October 31,                   October 31,                   October 31,               
                                     2023                          2022                          2021                      
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Taiwan                             $                316,889      $                291,342      $                248,597  
  China                                               245,378                       212,598                       115,732  
  Korea                                               162,235                       156,139                       156,391  
  United States                                       128,879                       126,205                       105,023  
  Europe                                               36,579                        36,402                        36,242  
  Other                                                 2,116                         1,863                         1,776  
                                     $                892,076      $                824,549      $                663,761  

* This table disaggregates revenue by the location in which it was earned.

                                        Year Ended                                                                            
  Revenue by Timing of Recognition      October 31,                   October 31,                   October 31,               
                                        2023                          2022                          2021                      
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Over time                             $                838,628      $                758,359      $                606,332  
  At a point in time                                      53,448                        66,190                        57,429  
                                        $                892,076      $                824,549      $                663,761  

Contract Assets, Contract Liabilities, and
Accounts Receivable

The

following table provides information about our contract balances at the balance sheet dates. Classification October 31, October 31,
2023 2022
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Contract Assets
Other current assets $ 10,984 $ 15,752
Contract Liabilities
Accrued liabilities $ 9,965 $ 18,872
Other liabilities 12,454 4,989
$ 22,419 $ 23,861 The following table presents revenue recognized
from contract liabilities that existed at the beginning of the reporting periods. October 31, October 31, October 31,
2023 2022 2021
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Revenue recognized from beginning liability $13,966 $8,934 $5,300 Our invoice terms generally range from
net thirtytoninety days,
depending on both the geographic market in which the transaction occurs and our payment agreements with specific customers. In the event that our evaluation of a customer’s business prospects and financial condition indicate that the customer
presents a collectability risk, we modify terms of sale, which may require payment in advance of performance. At the time of adoption, we elected the practical expedient allowed under ASC Topic 606 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“Topic
606”) that permits us not to adjust a contract’s promised amount of consideration to reflect a financing component when the period between when we transfer control of goods or services to customers and when we are paid is one year or less. In
instances when we are paid in advance of our performance, we record a contract liability and, as allowed under the practical expedient in Topic 606, recognize interest expense only if the period between when we receive payment from the customer
and the date when we expect to be entitled to the payment is greater than one year. Historically, advance payments we’ve received from customers have generally not preceded the completion of our performance obligations by more than one year.

54

Table of Contents

NOTE 10 - LEASES

The following table provides information on operating and finance leases included in our consolidated balance sheets.

  Classification                            October 31,                  October 31,              
                                            2023                         2022                     
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  ROU Assets – Operating Leases                                                                   
  Other assets                              $                 6,189      $                 3,341  
  ROU Assets – Finance Leases                                                                     
  Property, plant and equipment, net        $                35,165      $                37,976  
  Lease Liabilities – Operating Leases                                                            
  Accrued liabilities                       $                 1,912      $                 1,354  
  Other liabilities                                           4,218                        1,928  
                                            $                 6,130      $                 3,282  
  Lease Liabilities – Finance Leases                                                              
  Current portion of long-term debt         $                 6,621      $                 6,512  
  Long-term debt                                             17,998                       24,571  
                                            $                24,619      $                31,083  

The
following table presents future lease payments under noncancelable operating and finance leases as of October 31, 2023. Imputed interest represents the difference between undiscounted cash flows and discounted cash flows.

  Fiscal Year               Operating                 Finance              
                            Leases                    Leases               
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  2024                      $              2,015      $             6,951  
  2025                                     1,712                   18,026  
  2026                                     1,327                       13  
  2027                                     1,088                       13  
  2028                                       247                        1  
  Total lease payments      $              6,389      $            25,004  
  Imputed interest                         ( 259                    ( 385  
  Lease liabilities         $              6,130      $            24,619  

The following table presents lease costs for 2023, 2022, and 2021.

                                   Year Ended                                    
                                  October 31,      October 31,      October 31,  
                                         2023             2022             2021  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Operating lease costs                $2,278           $2,253           $2,904  
  Short-term lease costs                 $462             $469             $232  
  Variable lease costs                   $656             $603             $498  
  Interest on finance lease              $426             $522             $510  
  Amortization of ROU assets           $2,870           $2,917           $1,867  

The
following table presents statistical information related to our operating and finance leases. The information presented is as of the balance sheet dates.

                        October 31, 2023                                           October 31, 2022                    
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Classification        Weighted-                      Weighted-                   Weighted-                           
  Operating leases                            3.7                         2.4                            3.1      2.3  
  Finance leases                              1.2                         1.5                            2.2      1.5  

The following table presents the effects of leases on our 2023, 2022, and 2021 consolidated statements of cash flows, and provides leases-related non-cash information for those years.

                                                                       Year Ended                                     
                                                                       October 31,      October 31,      October 31,  
                                                                       2023             2022                    2021  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Operating cash flows used for operating leases                       $2,271           $2,259                $2,442  
  Operating cash flows used for finance leases                         $429             $566                    $464  
  Financing cash flows used for finance leases                         $6,521           $7,289                $4,323  
  ROU assets obtained in exchange for operating lease obligations      $5,116           $513                    $457  
  ROU assets obtained in exchange for finance lease obligations        $-               $-                   $42,672  

55

Table of Contents

NOTE 11 - SHARE-BASED
 COMPENSATION

In March 2016, shareholders
approved our current equity incentive compensation plan (“the Plan”), under which incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock grants, stock-based awards, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights,
performance units, performance stock, and other stock or cash awards may be granted. Shares to be issued under the Plan may be authorized and unissued shares, issued shares that have been reacquired by us (in the open market or in private
transactions), or a combination thereof. The maximum number of shares of common stock approved that may be issued under the Plan is four On March 16, 2023,
at its annual meeting of shareholders, the shareholders of Photronics, Inc., approved amendments to the Plan to increase the number of shares available for issuance by an additionalonemillion shares, thereby increasing the shares available for issuance under the Plan fromfourmillion tofivemillion. or at the discretion of the compensation committee; the vesting of awards may be accelerated. The Plan, aspects of which are more fully described below, prohibits further awards from
being issued under prior plans. The table below presents information on our share-based compensation expenses for the three most recent fiscal years.

                                                       Year Ended                                                                      
                                                       October 31,                 October 31,                 October 31,             
                                                       2023                        2022                        2021                    
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Expense reported in:                                                                                                                 
  Cost of goods sold                                   $                1,259      $                  868      $                  446  
  Selling, general, and administrative                                  5,962                       4,803                       4,446  
  Research and development                                                780                         637                         456  
  Total expense incurred                               $                8,001      $                6,308      $                5,348  
  Expense by award type:                                                                                                               
  Restricted stock awards                              $                7,909      $                5,800      $                4,920  
  Stock options                                                             1                         298                         218  
  Employee stock purchase plan                                             91                         210                         210  
  Total expense incurred                               $                8,001      $                6,308      $                5,348  
  Income tax benefits of share-based compensation      $                  715      $                  449      $                  233  
  Share-based compensation cost capitalized            $                    -      $                    -      $                    -  

Restricted Stock Awards

We periodically grant restricted stock awards, the restrictions on which
typically lapse over a service period of one four yearsA summary of restricted stock award activity during 2023 and the status of our restricted stock awards as
of October 31, 2023, is presented below.

  Restricted Stock                                            Weighted-Average  
                                                                 Fair Value at  
                                                                    Grant Date  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Outstanding at October 31, 2022                893,704                $15.62  
  Granted                                        791,925                $16.84  
  Vested                                       ( 417,432                $14.98  
  Cancelled                                     ( 29,900                $16.48  
  Outstanding at October 31, 2023              1,238,297                $16.27  
  Expected to vest as of October 31, 2023      1,117,128                $16.21  

The table below presents additional information on our restricted stock awards for the three most recent fiscal years. Year Ended
October 31, October 31, October 31,
2023 2022 2021
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Number of shares granted 791,925 654,224 564,800
Weighted-average grant-date fair value of awards (in dollars per share) $ 16.84 $ 18.73 $ 11.20
Compensation costs not yet recognized $ 12,760 $ 8,949 $ 7,300
Weighted-average amortization period (in years) 2.8 2.7 2.6
Fair value of awards for which restrictions lapsed $ 6,256 $ 5,212 $ 4,491
Shares outstanding at balance sheet date 1,238,297 893,704 929,147

Stock Options

Option awards generally vest in onetofour yearsand have aten-yearcontractual term. All incentive and non-qualified stock option grants must have an exercise price no less than the market value of the underlying
common stock on the date of grant. The grant-date fair values of options are based on closing prices of our common stock on the dates of grant and are calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Expected volatility is based on the
historical volatility of our common stock. We use historical option exercise behavior and employee termination data to estimate expected term, which represents the period of time that options granted are expected to remain outstanding. The risk-free
rate of return for the estimated term of an option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the date of grant.

56

Table of Contents

The table below presents a summary of stock
options activity during 2023 and information on stock options outstanding at October 31, 2023.

                                                   Weighted-Average      Weighted-Average      Aggregate                   
                                                     Exercise Price      Remaining             Intrinsic Value             
                                                                         Contractual Life                                  
  Granted                                   -                    $-                                                        
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Outstanding at                      614,001                 $9.74                                                        
  Exercised                         ( 137,226                 $8.24                                                        
  Cancellations,                      ( 4,500                $10.18                                                        
  Outstanding at                      472,275                $10.18      2.5 years             $                    3,865  
  Exercisable at                      472,275                $10.18      2.5 years             $                    3,865  
  Expected to vest as                       -                    $-      - years               $                    -      

The table below presents additional information on stock option awards for the three most recent fiscal years. Year Ended
October 31, October 31, October 31,
2023 2022 2021
Number of options granted in period - - -
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Total intrinsic value of options exercised $ 1,654 $ 5,108 $ 1,910
Cash received from option exercises $ 1,101 $ 5,275 $ 3,441
Compensation cost not yet recognized $ - $ 13 $ 109
Weighted-average amortization period for cost not yet recognized (in years) - 0.2 1.1

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”) permits employees to purchase Photronics,
Inc. common shares at85% of the lower of the closing market price at the commencement or ending date of the Plan year (which is
approximatelyone yearfrom the commencement date). We recognize the ESPP expense over that same period. As of October 31, 2023, the
maximum number of shares of common stock approved by our shareholders to be purchased under the ESPP was1.85million shares, of which
approximately1.6million shares had been issued through October 31, 2023. As of October 31, 2023, there isnounrecognized compensation cost. As of October 31, 2022, there were less than0.1million shares with unrecognized compensation cost of less than $0.1million that was recognized in fiscal year 2023.

NOTE 12 - EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS

We maintain a 401(k) Savings and Profit-Sharing Plan (“401(k) Plan”) which covers all full and certain part-time U.S. employees who
have completedthree monthsof service and are18years of age or older. Under the terms of the 401(k) Plan, employees may contribute up to50% of
their salary, subject to certain maximum amounts, which will be matched by the Company at50% of the employee’s contributions that are not
in excess of4% of the employee’s compensation. Employee and employer contributions vest immediately upon contribution. The total employer
contributions for all of our defined contribution plans were $0.8million, $0.7million and $0.8million in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively.

57

Table of Contents

NOTE 13 - INCOME TAXES

On December 15, 2022, the European Union (EU) Member States formally adopted the EU’s Pillar Two Directive, which generally provides for a minimum
effective tax rate of 15%, as established by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Pillar Two Framework. The EU effective dates are January 1, 2024, and January 1, 2025, for different aspects of the directive. A
significant number of other countries are expected to also implement similar legislation with varying effective dates in the future. The Company is continuing to evaluate the potential impact on future periods of the Pillar Two Framework, pending
legislative adoption by additional individual countries.

Income before the income tax provisions consists of the following:

                     Year Ended                                                                             
                     October 31,                   October 31,                   October 31,                
                     2023                          2022                          2021                       
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  United States      $                ( 1,737      $                  1,813      $                ( 19,447  
  Foreign                             271,683                       237,220                        121,453  
                     $                269,946      $                239,033      $                 102,006  

Income Tax Provision

The components of our income tax provisions are presented below.

                 Year Ended                                                                          
                 October 31,                  October 31,                  October 31,               
                 2023                         2022                         2021                      
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Current:                                                                                           
  Federal        $                     -      $                     -      $                      -  
  State                               14                            1                             4  
  Foreign                         71,225                       58,981                        25,296  
                                  71,239                       58,982                        25,300  
  Deferred:                                                                                          
  Federal                              -                            -                             -  
  State                               12                           10                           103  
  Foreign                          ( 939                          799                       ( 2,213  
                                   ( 927                          809                       ( 2,110  
  Total          $                70,312      $                59,791      $                 23,190  

The table below presents a reconciliation of income taxes calculated by applying the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to our
income tax provisions of the reporting periods.

                                                                                Year Ended                                                                            
                                                                                October 31,                   October 31,                   October 31,               
                                                                                2023                          2022                          2021                      
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  U.S. federal income tax at statutory rate                                     $                 56,689      $                 50,197      $                 21,421  
  Changes in valuation allowances                                                                  ( 256                       ( 1,462                           364  
  Foreign tax rate differentials                                                                  11,394                         7,941                         3,244  
  Tax credits                                                                                    ( 2,425                       ( 1,368                       ( 3,942  
  Uncertain tax positions, including reserves, settlements and resolutions                         3,328                         3,214                         1,037  
  Other, net                                                                                       1,582                         1,269                         1,066  
  Income tax provision                                                          $                 70,312      $                 59,791      $                 23,190  

Reporting Period U.S. Statutory Tax Photronics Effective Primary Reasons for Differences
Rates Tax Rates
───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
2023 21.0 26.0 Non-U.S. pre-tax income being taxed at higher statutory rates in non-U.S. jurisdictions, the establishment of uncertain tax positions in
2022 21.0 25.0 Non-U.S. pre-tax income being taxed at higher statutory rates in non-U.S. jurisdictions; and the establishment of uncertain tax positions
2021 21.0 22.7 Loss jurisdiction pre-tax losses not being benefited due to valuation allowances, non-U.S. pre-tax income being taxed at higher statutory rates in the non-U.S. jurisdictions, and investment credits in foreign jurisdictions.

58

Table of Contents

Deferred Income Tax Assets
and Liabilities

The net deferred income tax assets consist of the following:

                                         As of                                                     
                                         October 31,                    October 31,                
  Deferred income tax                                                                              
  Net operating losses                   $                  26,377      $                  29,410  
  Reserves not currently deductible                          8,776                          8,528  
  Tax credit carryforwards                                  10,442                          9,660  
  Share-based compensation                                   1,892                          1,560  
  Property, plant and equipment                              9,844                          6,591  
  Lease liabilities                                          5,743                          7,367  
                                                            63,074                         63,116  
  Valuation allowances                                    ( 32,619                       ( 32,895  
                                                            30,455                         30,221  
  Deferred income tax liabilities                                                                  
  ROU assets                                               ( 8,193                        ( 8,930  
  Other                                                    ( 1,200                        ( 1,722  
                                                           ( 9,393                       ( 10,652  
  Net deferred income tax assets         $                  21,062      $                  19,569  
  Classification                                                                                   
  Deferred income tax assets             $                  21,297      $                  19,816  
  Other liabilities                                          ( 235                          ( 247  
                                         $                  21,062      $                  19,569  

We have established a valuation allowance for a portion of our deferred tax assets because we believe, based on the weight of all available evidence,
that it is more likely than not that a portion of our deferred tax assets will expire prior to utilization. In 2023 the valuation allowance decreased as a result of management’s determination that tax benefits on deferred tax assets would more likely
than not be realized and, therefore, decreased the valuation allowance to include these deferred tax assets.

Due to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law in December 2017, as of fiscal year end 2018, U.S. deferred taxes were no longer provided on
the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. Our policy to indefinitely reinvest these earnings in non-U.S. operations remains unchanged for the purpose of determining deferred tax liabilities for U.S. state and foreign withholding taxes.
Therefore, should we elect in the future to repatriate the remaining foreign earnings deemed to be indefinitely reinvested, we may incur additional state and foreign withholding tax expense on those earnings, the amount of which is not practicable to
compute.

Tax

The following tables present our available operating loss and credit carryforwards as of October 31, 2023, and their related
expiration periods.

  Operating Loss Carryforwards        Amount      Expiration                              
                                                  Period                                  
  Federal                            $86,765      2029 -Indefinite                        
  State                             $148,934                            2024 -Indefinite  
  Foreign                               $435                            2024 -Indefinite  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

59

Table of Contents

  Tax Credit Carryforwards              Amount      Expiration                   
  Federal research and development      $5,806                      2024 - 2043  
  State                                 $5,042                      2024 - 2037  

Uncertain Tax PositionsWe include unrecognized tax benefits in Other liabilities, and we include any applicable interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in our income tax provision.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits is presented below. The amounts in the table
include settlements of non-U.S. audits.

                                                                  Year Ended                                                                      
                                                                  October 31,                 October 31,                 October 31,             
                                                                  2023                        2022                        2021                    
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Balance at beginning of year before interest and penalties      $                5,204      $                3,534      $                2,550  
  (Reductions) additions of tax positions in prior years                             209                       ( 355                         181  
  Additions based on current year tax positions                                    3,361                       2,892                       1,313  
  Settlements                                                                      ( 423                       ( 848                       ( 489  
  Lapses of statutes of limitations                                                 ( 19                        ( 19                        ( 21  
  Balance at end of year before interest and penalties                             8,332                       5,204                       3,534  
  Interest and penalties                                                             576                         395                         223  
  Balance at end of year including interest and penalties         $                8,908      $                5,599      $                3,757  

The following table presents additional information
on our uncertain tax positions, as of the balance sheet dates.

                                                                                          October 31,      October 31,  
                                                                                                 2023             2022  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate           $8,908           $5,599  
  Accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions                              $576             $395  

Although the timing of the reversal of uncertain tax positions may be uncertain, as they can be dependent upon the settlement of tax audits or
expirations of statutes of limitations, the Company believes that the amount of uncertain tax positions (including accrued interest and penalties, and net of tax benefits) that may be resolved over the next twelve months is $0.4million. Resolution of these uncertain tax positions may result from either or both the lapses of statutes of limitations and tax settlements. The
Company is no longer subject to tax authority examinations in the U.S., major foreign, or state tax jurisdictions for years prior to fiscal year 2018.

Income Tax Payments and Refunds

The table below presents income taxes paid and refunds of income taxes received during the reporting periods. Year Ended
October 31, October 31, October 31,
2023 2022 2021
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Income taxes paid $70,362 $37,770 $22,684
Income tax refunds received $485 $388 $713

60

Table of Contents

NOTE 14 - EARNINGS PER SHARE

The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is presented below.

                                                                          Year Ended                                                                           
                                                                          October 31,                   October 31,                   October 31,              
                                                                          2023                          2022                          2021                     
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Net income attributable to Photronics, Inc. shareholders                $                125,485      $                118,786      $                55,449  
  Effect of dilutive securities                                                                  -                             -                            -  
  Earnings used for diluted earnings per share                            $                125,485      $                118,786      $                55,449  
  Weighted-average common shares computations:                                                                                                                 
  Weighted-average common shares used for basic earnings per share                          61,139                        60,559                       61,407  
  Effect of dilutive securities:                                                                                                                               
  Share-based payment awards                                                                   616                           630                          592  
  Potentially dilutive common shares                                                           616                           630                          592  
  Weighted-average common shares used for diluted earnings per share                        61,755                        61,189                       61,999  
  Basic earnings per share                                                $                   2.05      $                   1.96      $                  0.90  
  Diluted earnings per share                                              $                   2.03      $                   1.94      $                  0.89  

The table below sets forth the outstanding weighted-average share-based payment awards that were excluded from the calculation of
diluted earnings per share because their exercise price exceeded the average market value of the common shares for the period or, under application of the treasury stock method, they were otherwise determined to be antidilutive.

                                                  Year Ended                                                                
                                                  October 31,               October 31,               October 31,           
                                                  2023                      2022                      2021                  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Share based payment awards                                       136                       314                       331  
  Total potentially dilutive shares excluded                       136                       314                       331  

NOTE 15 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

Presented below are our unrecognized commitments, as of October 31, 2023. Included in these amounts are commitments of $106.8million for the purchase of capital equipment. The amounts below do not include our commitments under our debt and lease arrangements, which are
presented in Notes 8 and 10, respectively.

  Fiscal Year      Unrecognized               
         2024      $                  99,779  
         2025                         27,182  
         2026                         10,024  
         2027                             79  
         2028                             65  
   Thereafter                              -  
        Total      $                 137,129  

We are subject to various claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. We believe that our potential liability under such
claims, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. As of October 31, 2023, and October 31, 2022, we were not involved in environmental litigation to which a government was a party.

61

Table of Contents

NOTE 16 - CHANGES IN ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME BY COMPONENT

The following tables set forth the changes in our accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income by component (net of tax of $0) for the years ended October 31, 2023, and October 31, 2022.

                                                                                  Year Ended October 31,                                                               
                                                                                  2023                                                                                 
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                                                                  Foreign Currency                          Other                 Total                
  Balance at October 31, 2022                                                     $                           ( 97,790      $          ( 666      $          ( 98,456  
  Other comprehensive income (loss)                                                                              5,615                   ( 3                    5,612  
  Other comprehensive (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interests                                     4,131                  ( 21                    4,110  
  Balance at October 31, 2023                                                     $                           ( 88,044      $          ( 690      $          ( 88,734  

                                                                                  Year Ended October 31, 2022                                                                 
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
                                                                                  Foreign Currency                                Other                 Total                 
  Balance at October 31, 2021                                                     $                                   21,476      $          ( 905      $             20,571  
  Other comprehensive (loss) income                                                                                ( 151,209                   423                 ( 150,786  
  Other comprehensive loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests                                          31,943                 ( 184                    31,759  
  Balance at October 31, 2022                                                     $                                 ( 97,790      $          ( 666      $           ( 98,456  

62

Table of Contents

NOTE 17 - RISKS AND CONCENTRATIONS

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to credit risk principally consist of trade accounts receivable and short-term
cash investments. We sell our products primarily to semiconductor and FPD manufacturers in Asia, North America, and Europe. We believe that the concentration of credit risk in our trade receivables is substantially mitigated by our ongoing credit
evaluation process and relatively short collection terms. We do not generally require collateral from customers. We establish an allowance for credit losses based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends, and
other information.

Our cash and cash equivalents are deposited in several financial institutions, including institutions located within all of the
countries in which we manufacture photomasks. Portions of deposits in some of these institutions may exceed the amount of insurance available for such deposits at these institutions. As these deposits are generally redeemable upon demand and are held
by high quality, reputable institutions, we consider them to bear minimal credit risk. We further mitigate credit risks related to our cash and cash equivalents by spreading such risk among a number of institutions.

The following table presents the percentages of our net
accounts receivable attributable to customers that accounted for more than ten percent of the total balance as of the balance sheet dates.

                  October 31,              October 31,          
                  2023                     2022                 
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Customer A                       21                       16  
  Customer B                       10                       16  

The following table presents the percentages of our revenue attributable to customers that accounted for more than ten percent of
the total revenue during the reporting periods.

                  Year Ended                                                             
                  October 31,              October 31,              October 31,          
                  2023                     2022                     2021                 
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Customer A                       14                       15                       17  
  Customer B                       13                        5                        3  
  Customer C                       10                       11                       12  

We operate as a single operating segment as a manufacturer of photomasks, which are high precision quartz or glass plates containing
microscopic images of electronic circuits for use in the fabrication of IC’s and FPDs.

As of the balance sheet dates, our long-lived assets and net assets were, by geographic area, as presented below. October 31, 2023 October 31, 2022
Long-lived Assets Net Assets Long-lived Assets
──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
China $ 249,357 $ 317,409 $ 242,712 257,855
Taiwan 199,313 489,722 155,690 393,795
United States 140,733 188,712 132,915 183,909
Korea 119,438 281,941 109,892 229,501
Europe and Other 7,294 ( 2,175 6,758 ( 2,971
$ 716,135 $ 1,275,609 $ 647,967 1,062,089

63

Table of Contents

NOTE 18 - RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

Our chief executive officer is related to an individual in a position of authority at one of our largest customers. We recorded
revenue from this customer of $126.5million, $119.0million and $111.0million, in 2023, 2022, and 2021, respectively. As of October 31, 2023, and October 31, 2022, we had accounts receivable
of $41.5million and $32.4million, respectively, from this customer.

We believe that the terms of the transaction described above were negotiated at arm’s length and were no less favorable to us than
terms we could have obtained from unrelated third parties.

NOTE 19 - FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS

The accounting framework for determining fair value includes a hierarchy for ranking the quality and reliability of the information
used to measure fair value, which enables the reader of the financial statements to assess the inputs used to develop those measurements. The fair value hierarchy consists of three tiers, as follows: Level 1, defined as quoted market prices
(unadjusted) in active markets for identical securities; Level 2, defined as inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs that are not corroborated by market data.

The fair values of our cash and certain cash equivalents (Level 1 measurements), accounts receivable, accounts payable, and certain
other current assets and current liabilities (Level 2 measurements) approximate their carrying values due to their short-term maturities. The fair values of our Short-term

investmentsare Level 1 measurements. (Please refer to “Investments” within Note 1 for additional fair value information on ourShort-term investments.)

The fair values of certain cash equivalents are Level 2 measurements that are provided by independent third-party pricing services or other independent entities, which may use matrix pricing, valuation models, or other methods which utilize
observable market data. The fair values of our variable-rate debt instruments are Level 2 measurements and approximate their carrying values due to the variable nature of their underlying interest rates. Other than ourShort-term investments, we didnot have any assets or liabilities
measured at fair value, on a recurring or a nonrecurring basis, at October 31, 2023, or October 31, 2022.

NOTE 20 - SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAMS

In September 2020, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $ 100 pursuant to a repurchase plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Act. The most recent 10b5-1 plan expired onSeptember 15, 2022, and has not been renewed. Share repurchases under this authorization commenced September 16, 2020 0.2 2.5 13.43 5.8 68.3 11.70 31.7

In August 2019, the Company’s board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $100million of its common stock, pursuant to a repurchase plan under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Act. The share repurchase program
commenced onSeptember 25, 2019, and was terminated onMarch 20, 2020.

All of the shares purchased under the above repurchase programs were retired prior to the end of the fiscal
year in which they were purchased. As of October 31, 2023, $31.7million was available under this authorization for the purchase
of additional shares. The table below presents information on the repurchase programs for the three most recent fiscal years.

                                    2023                   2022                      2021                   
                                    Purchases              Purchases                 Purchases              
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  Number of shares repurchased                      0                       187                      3,919  
  Cost of shares repurchased        $               0      $              2,522      $              48,249  
  Average price paid per share      $               0      $              13.43      $               12.31  

64

Table of Contents

NOTE 21- SUBSIDIARY DIVIDENDS

In2021, PDMC, the Company’s majority owned subsidiary in Taiwan, paid dividends of which49.99%, or approximately $9.6million were
paid to noncontrolling interests. Dividends werenot paid in the years ended 2022 and 2023.

NOTE 22 - RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

Accounting Standards Updates Adopted

In November 2021, the FASB issued ASU 2021-10, “Government Assistance (Topic 832): Disclosures by Business Entities about Government Assistance”, to increase the transparency of
government assistance including the disclosure of the types of assistance an entity receives, an entity’s method of accounting for government assistance, and the effect of the assistance on an entity’s financial statements. The guidance was
effective for annual disclosures beginning our fiscal year 2023, and early adoption was permitted. We adopted the guidance as of the effective date. The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note
1 of our consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Accounting Standards Updates to be Adopted In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-07, “Segment Reporting
(Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures”, which improves reportable segment disclosure requirements, primarily through enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses. The guidance in this Update is effective for all
public entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the effect the adoption of this ASU may have on our disclosures.

In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, “Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on
Financial Reporting”, which provides optional expedients and exceptions to applying the guidance on contract modifications, hedge accounting, and other transactions, to simplify the accounting for transitioning from LIBOR, and other interbank
offered rates expected to be discontinued, to alternative reference rates. The guidance in this Update was effective upon its issuance; if elected, it is to be applied prospectively from December 31, 2022. In December 2022, the FASB issues
ASU 2022-06, “Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Deferral of the Sunset Date of Topic 848”, which extends the period of time entities can utilize the reference rate reform relief guidance under ASU 2020-04 from December 31, 2022 to December 31,
2024. We are currently evaluating the effect the adoption of this ASU may have on our disclosures.

65

Table of Contents

  ITEM 9.      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

None.

  ITEM 9A.      CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of October 31, 2023. We have established and
currently maintain disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act, designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the
Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including our
chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and
procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost- benefit relationship of
possible controls and procedures. Based on an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of October 31, 2023, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level.

Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the Company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting based on criteria
established in the Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2023, based on the criteria set forth by the COSO. Management, under the supervision and with the participation
of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October 31, 2023.

The Company's independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, has audited the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2023, as stated in
their report on page 72 of this Form 10-K.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

There were no changes to our internal control over financial reporting during 2023 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

66

Table of Contents

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the shareholdersand the Board of Directors of Photronics, Inc.

Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Photronics, Inc. (the “Company”) as of October 31, 2023, based on criteria established
in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31,2023, based on criteria established in Internal Control - 
Integrated Framework (2013)issued by COSO.

We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the
consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended October 31,2023, of the Company and our report dated December 22, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on those
financial statements.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered
with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection
of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

December 22, 2023

67

Table of Contents

  ITEM 9B.      OTHER INFORMATION  
 ───────────────────────────────────

None.

  ITEM 9C.      DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTION  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Not applicable.

PART III

  ITEM 10.      DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

The information as to Directors required by Items 401, 405 and 407(c)(3)(d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K is set forth in our 2023 Definitive Proxy Statement which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K under the caption “PROPOSAL 1 - ELECTION OF DIRECTORS,” “DELINQUENT SECTION 16(A) REPORTS” and in the third
paragraph under the caption “MEETINGS AND COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD”, and is incorporated in this report by reference. The information as to Executive Officers is included in our 2023 Definitive Proxy Statement under the caption “EXECUTIVE OFFICERS”
and is incorporated in this report by reference.

We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to our principal executive officer, chief financial officer or principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. A copy of the code of ethics may be obtained,
free of charge, by writing to the executive vice president, general counsel of Photronics, Inc. at 15 Secor Road, Brookfield, Connecticut 06804.

  ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  
 ────────────────────────────────────────

The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K and paragraph (e)(4) and (e)(5) of Item 407 is set forth in our 2023 Definitive Proxy Statement under the captions “EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION”, “CERTAIN AGREEMENTS”,
“DIRECTORS' COMPENSATION”, “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION” and “COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION”, respectively, and is incorporated in this report by reference.

  ITEM 12.      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

The information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is set forth in our 2024 Definitive Proxy Statement under the caption “EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION” and is incorporated in this report by reference.
The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is set forth in our 2024 Definitive Proxy Statement under the caption “OWNERSHIP OF COMMON STOCK BY DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS”, and is incorporated in this report by
reference.

  ITEM 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

The information required by Items 404 and Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K is set forth in our 2023 Definitive Proxy Statement under the captions “MEETINGS AND COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD” and “RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS”,
respectively, and is incorporated in this report by reference.

68

Table of Contents

  ITEM 14.      PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

The information required by Item 9(e) of Rule 14a-101 of the Exchange Act is set forth in our 2024 Definitive Proxy Statement under the captions “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees” and “AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT”, and is incorporated in this report by reference.

PART IV

  ITEM 15.      EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

The following documents are filed as part of this report:

                                                                                                                                                                                    Page  
                                                                                                                                                                                    No.   
  Financial Statements: See "INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS" in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for a list of financial statements filed as part of this report.      36    
  Financial Statement Schedules                                                                                                                                                           
  All schedules are omitted because they are immaterial or not applicable.                                                                                                                
  Exhibit Index                                                                                                                                                                     70    

69

Table of Contents

EXHIBIT INDEX

                                                                                                                                                             Incorporated by Reference                                   Filed or   
  Exhibit      Description                                                                                                                                   Form                           Exhibit      Filing                     
      3.1      Certificate of Incorporation as amended July 9, 1986, April 9, 1990, March 16, 1995, November 13, 1997, April 15, 2002 and June 20, 2005      10-K                               3.1      12/23/2019                 
      3.2      Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company dated as of September 7, 2016                                                                     8-K                                3.2      9/13/2016                  
      4.1      Description of Securities of the Company                                                                                                      10-K                               4.1      12/23/2019                 
      4.2      Certificate of Amendment with Respect to Series A Preferred Stock, dated September 24, 2019                                                   8-K                                3.1      9/24/2019                  
     10.1      The Company’s 1992 Employee Stock Purchase Plan                                                                                               10-K                              10.1      12/20/2017                 
     10.2      Amendment to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of March 24, 2004 +                                                                          10-K                              10.2      1/6/2017                   
     10.3      Amendment to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of April 8, 2010 +                                                                           10-K                              10.4      1/7/2016                   
     10.4      Amendment to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of March 28, 2012 +                                                                          10-K                              10.4      12/21/2018                 
     10.5      Amendment to the Employee Stock Plan as of December 18, 2019 +                                                                                10-K                              10.5      12/23/2019                 
     10.6      2016 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan +                                                                                                     DEF 14A                                     2/29/2016                  
     10.7      Amendment to the 2016 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan                                                                                      8-K                               10-1      3/21/2023                  
     10.8      The Company’s 2007 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan +                                                                                          DEF 14A                                     2/23/2007                  
    10. 9      Amendment to the 2007 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan as of April 8, 2010 +                                                                   10-K                              10.7      1/7/2016                   
   10. 10      Amendment to the 2007 Long Term Equity Incentive Plan as of April 11, 2014 +                                                                  10-K                              10.7      12/23/2019                 
    10.11      2011 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan effective as of November 1, 2010 +                                                                 10-K                              10.9      1/6/2015                   
    10.12      Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement                                                                                                                                                                  X          
   10.1 3      Joint Venture Operating Agreement dated November 20, 2013, between the Company and Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd #                                                                                         X          

70

Table of Contents

  10.1 4      Outsourcing Agreement dated November 20, 2013, among the Company, Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd and Photronics Semiconductor Mask Corporation                                                               
  10.1 5      License Agreement dated November 20, 2013, between the Company and Photronics Semiconductor Mask Corporation#                                                                                              
   10.16      Executive Employment Agreement between the Company and Christopher J. Progler, Vice President, Chief Technology Officer dated September 10, 2007 +                        10-K      10.18      12/23/2019  
   10.17      Executive Employment Agreement between the Company and Richelle E. Burr dated May 21, 2010 +                                                                              10-K      10.30      1/7/2016    
   10.20      Form of Amendment to Executive Employment Agreement dated March 16, 2012+                                                                                                 10-K      10.23      12/23/2019  
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
   10.18      Executive Employment Agreement between the Company and John P. Jordan dated September 5, 2017 +                                                                           10-K      10.31      12/20/2017  
  10. 19      Employment Agreement dated March 9, 2020, between Photronics Dai Nippon Mask Corporation, Photronics and Frank Lee                                                        10-Q      10.36      3/11/2020   
   10.21      Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September 27, 2018, among Photronics, Inc. the Foreign Subsidiary Borrower Party Thereto, the Lender Party       10-K      10.24      12/21/2018  
   10.22      Third Amended and Restated Security Agreement entered into as of September 27, 2018, by and among Photronics, Inc., the subsidiaries of the Company and JPMorgan          10-K      10.25      12/21/2018  
   10.23      Fixed Asset Loan Agreement between Photronics DNP Mask Corporation Xiamen and Industrial and Commercial Bank China Limited Xiamen Xiang’an Branch                         10-K      10.26      12/21/2018  
   10.24      Working Capital Loan Agreement between Industrial and Commercial Bureau China Limited Xiamen Xiang’an Branch and Photronics DNP Mask Corporation Xiamen effective as      10-K      10.27      12/21/2018  
   10.26      Investment Agreement between Xiamen Torch Hi-Tech Industrial Development Zone Management Committee and Photronics Singapore Pte. Ltd.                                     10-Q      10.35      9/2/2016    
   10.27      Amendment No. 1 to the Investment Agreement between Xiamen Torch Hi-Tech Industrial Development Zone Management Committee and Photronics Singapore Pte, Ltd. #            10-K      10.29      12/23/2019  
   10.28      Amendment No. 2 to the Investment Agreement between Xiamen Torch Hi-Tech Industrial Development Zone, People’s Government of Xiang’an Xiamen, Photronics Singapore        10-Q      10.41      3/10/2022   

71

Table of Contents

  10.30      Joint Venture Operating Agreement dated May 16, 2017, among Photronics, Photronics Singapore, DNP, and DNP Asia Pacific #                                                                   X   
  10.31      Outsourcing Agreement dated May 16, 2017, among Photronics, DNP, Photronics DNP Photomask Corporation (“PDMC”) and PDMCX                                                                    X   
  10.34      Master Lease Agreement dated October 12, 2020, between TD Equipment Finance and the Company                                                          10-K        10.38      1/15/2021           
  10.36      Fixed Asset Loan Contract dated October 1, 2020, between Hefei Photronics Mask Corporation and China Construction Bank Corporation                   10-K        10.39      1/15/2021           
  10.37      Maximum Mortgage Contract dated October 1, 2020 between Photronics Mask Corporation Hefei and China Construction Bank Corporation Hefei Shushan      10-K        10.40      1/15/2021           
             Branch                                                                                                                                                                                          
 ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  10.29      Amendment No. 3 to the Investment Agreement between Xiamen Torch Hi-Tech Industrial Development Zone, People’s Government of Xiang’an Xiamen,        10-Q        10.42      3/10/2022           
  10.32      Amended and Restated License Agreement dated May 16, 2017 between DNP and PDMC#                                                                      10-Q/A      10.29      12/19/2017          
  10.33      Investment Cooperation Agreement between Hefei State Hi-tech Industry Development Zone and Photronics UK, Ltd.                                       10-K        10.42      12/20/2017          
  10.35      Master Lease Agreement Dated September 5, 2019 between Bank of America and the Company                                                               10-Q        10.28      9/5/2019            
     19      Insider Trading Policy                                                                                                                                                                      X   
     21      List of Subsidiaries of the Company                                                                                                                  10-K           21                      X   
   23.1      Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm                                                                      10-K         23.1                      X   
   31.1      Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the         10-K         31.1                      X   
   31.2      Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the         10-K         32.2                      X   

72

Table of Contents

    97      Compensation Recovery Policy effective October 2, 2023                                                                                                                    X   
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  32.1      Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002      10-K      32.1      X   
  32.2      Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002      10-K      32.2      X   

  101. INS      Inline XBRL Instance Document (the instance document does          10-K      101. INS      X   
                not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL tags                                  
                are embedded within the Inline XBRL document)                                                  
  101. SCH      Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document                     10-K      101. SCH      X   
  101. CAL      Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document       10-K      101. CAL      X   
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  101. DEF      Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document                                    10-K      101. DEF      X   
  101. LAB      Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document                                         10-K      101. LAB      X   
  101. PRE      Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document                                  10-K      101. PRE      X   
 ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
  104           Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted as inline XBRL and contained in, Exhibit 101)                              X   

  Represents a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.  

  Portions of this exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  
 ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

The Company will provide a copy of any exhibit upon receipt of a written request for the particular exhibit or exhibits desired. All requests should be addressed to the Company's general counsel at the address of the
Company's principal executive offices.

  ITEM 16.      FORM 10-K SUMMARY  
 ───────────────────────────────────

Not applicable.

73

Table of Contents

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

  PHOTRONICS, INC.                                                                             
  (Registrant)                                                                                 
  /s/ John P. Jordan                                     /s/ Eric Rivera                       
  John P. Jordan                                         Eric Rivera                           
  December 22, 2023                                      December 22, 2023                     

Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

  By      /s/ Frank Lee                                          December 22, 2023  
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
          Frank Lee                                                                 
  By      /s/ John P. Jordan                                     December 22, 2023  
          John P. Jordan                                                            
  By      /s/ Eric Rivera                                        December 22, 2023  
          Eric Rivera                                                               
  By      /s/ Constantine S. Macricostas                         December 22, 2023  
          Constantine S. Macricostas                                                
  By      /s/ Walter M. Fiederowicz                              December 22, 2023  
          Walter M. Fiederowicz                                                     
  By      /s/ Adam Lewis                                         December 22, 2023  
          Adam Lewis                                                                
  By      /s/ Daniel Liao                                        December 22, 2023  
          Daniel Liao                                                               
  By      /s/ George Macricostas                                 December 22, 2023  
          George Macricostas                                                        
  By      /s/ Mary Paladino                                      December 22, 2023  
          Mary Paladino                                                             
  By      /s/ Mitchell G. Tyson                                  December 22, 2023  
          Mitchell G. Tyson                                                         

74
